Tue Jun 14 10:22:46 2022
The total number of articles: 2310

pmid: 29163643
title: Persistent bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in cattle herds
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a significant pathogen associated with gastrointestinal, respiratory, and reproductive diseases of cattle worldwide. It causes continuous economic losses to the cattle industry primarily due to decreased reproductive performance. The ability of virus to cross the placenta during early pregnancy can result in the birth of persistently infected (PI) calves. Persistently infected animals are generally much more efficient transmitters of BVDV than transiently or acutely infected animals because they are capable of shedding large quantities of virus throughout their lives and are considered the primary reservoirs for BVDV. Due to the nature of viral infections, there is no treatment to fully cure an animal of a viral infection. All control programs which are in use in many countries of the world, mainly depend upon the detection of PI animals, eliminating them and preventing their return into the herds. Detection of PI animals at early stage, particularly soon after birth is of significant benefit to implement BVDV control programs. Available diagnostic tests such as virus isolation (VI), immunohistochemistry (IHC), Antigen-Capture ELISA (ACE), and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) are used for detection of PI cattle. Each method to detect BVDV has advantages, disadvantages, and applicability for different diagnostic situations. The reliability of diagnostic tests is optimized by choosing the appropriate sampling strategy on the basis of animal age.


pmid: 31895016
title: Mechanisms linking bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection with infertility in cattle
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an important infectious disease agent that causes significant reproductive and economic losses in the cattle industry worldwide. Although BVDV infection is known to cause poor fertility in cattle, a greater part of the underlying mechanisms particularly associated with early reproductive losses are not clearly understood. Previous studies reported viral compromise of reproductive function in infected bulls. In females, BVDV infection is thought to be capable of killing the oocyte, embryo or fetus directly, or to induce lesions that result in fetal abortion or malformation. BVDV infections may also induce immune dysfunction, and predispose cattle to other diseases that cause poor health and fertility. Other reports also suggested BVDV-induced disruption of the reproductive endocrine system, and a disruption of leukocyte and cytokine functions in the reproductive organs. More recent studies have provided evidence of viral-induced suppression of endometrial innate immunity that may predispose to uterine disease. Furthermore, there is new evidence that BVDV may potentially disrupt the maternal recognition of pregnancy or the immune protection of the conceptus. This review brings together the previous reports with the more recent findings, and attempts to explain some of the mechanisms linking this important virus to infertility in cattle.


pmid: 34533637
title: Seroprevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in cattle population in Iran: a systematic review and meta-analysis
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an important pathogen correlated with reproductive, respiratory, and gastrointestinal disorders in cattle. Furthermore, it causes endemic infections and significant economic losses in cattle herds worldwide. This review was performed to determine the pooled seroprevalence of BVDV infection and related risk factors among cattle in Iran. Data were systematically gathered without time limitation until 1 December 2020 in the Islamic Republic of Iran from the following electronic databases: PubMed, Google Scholar, Science Direct, Scopus, Web of Science, Elmnet, Magiran, Irandoc, Scientific Information Database (SID), and Civilica. According to the preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses (PRISMA) and inclusion criteria, 28 eligible studies were obtained from various Iran areas. In total, the pooled seroprevalence of BVDV infection, using random-effect model, was estimated 52% (95% CI, 40.1-63.9) in cattle. According to serological detection methods, pooled seroprevalence was as follows: based on ELISA 53.9% and SVN 25.1%. The highest pooled seroprevalence of BVDV infection was in the southeast provinces of Iran (78.4%) and lowest pooled seroprevalence was in Southwest provinces of the country (28.5%). The pooled seroprevalence of BVDV infection in cattle ≤ 2 years was significantly lower than cattle > 2 years (OR = 0.606; 95% CI, 0.397-0.925), whereas the pooled seroprevalence had no significant difference according to other factors such as gender, herd size, and herd types. In conclusion, the pooled seroprevalence of BVDV infection among cattle in Iran is relatively high. The seroprevalence was different among geographical regions of the country. These results are desirable for managing the control programs of this infection in Iran.


pmid: 27379074
title: Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) in White-Tailed Deer (Odocoileus virginianus)
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is the prototypic member of the genus Pestivirus in the family Flaviviridae. Infections with BVDV cause substantial economic losses to the cattle industries, prompting various organized control programs in several countries. In North America, these control programs are focused on the identification and removal of persistently infected (PI) cattle, enhancement of BVDV-specific immunity through vaccination, and the implementation of biosecure farming practices. To be successful, control measures must be based on complete knowledge of the epidemiology of BVDV, including the recognition of other potential sources of the virus. BVDV does not possess strict host-specificity, and infections of over 50 species in the mammalian order Artiodactyla have been reported. Over 50 years ago, serologic surveys first suggested the susceptibility of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), the most abundant free-ranging ruminant in North America, to BVDV. However, susceptibility of white-tailed deer to BVDV infection does not alone imply a role in the epidemiology of the virus. To be a potential wildlife reservoir, white-tailed deer must: (1) be susceptible to BVDV, (2) shed BVDV, (3) maintain BVDV in the population, and (4) have sufficient contact with cattle that allow spillback infections. Based on the current literature, this review discusses the potential of white-tailed deer to be a reservoir for BVDV.


pmid: 12770540
title: BVDV and innate immunity
abstract: Infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is prevalent in the cattle population worldwide. The virus exists in two biotypes, cytopathic and non-cytopathic, depending on the effect of the viruses on cultured cells. BVDV may cause transient and persistent infections which differ fundamentally in the host's antiviral immune response. Transient infection may be due to both cytopathic and non-cytopathic biotypes of BVDV and leads to a specific immune response. In contrast, only non-cytopathic BVD viruses can establish persistent infection as a result of infection of the embryo early in its development. Persistent infection is characterized by immunotolerance specific for the infecting viral strain. In this paper we discuss the role of innate immune responses in the two types of infection. In general, both transient and persistent infections are associated with an increased frequency of secondary infections. Associated with the increased risk of such infections are, among others, impaired bacteria killing and decreased chemotaxis. Interestingly, non-cytopathic BVDV fails to induce interferon type I in cultured bovine macrophages whereas cytopathic biotypes readily trigger this response. Cells infected with non-cytopathic BVDV are also resistant to induction of interferon by double stranded RNA, a potent interferon inducer signalling the presence of viral replication in the cell. Thus, non-cytopathic BVDV may dispose of a mechanism suppressing a key element of the antiviral defence of the innate immune system. Since interferon is also important in the activation of the adaptive immune response, suppression of this signal may be essential for the establishment of persistent infection and immunotolerance.


pmid: 26050576
title: Perspective on BVDV control programs
abstract: Programs for control and eradication of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) are often considered prudent when the expense of a control program within a specified time frame effectively prevents loss due to disease and the expense of control does not exceed the costs associated with infection. In some geographic areas, concerns about animal welfare or desires to reduce antibiotic usage may motivate BVDV control even when control programs are associated with a lack of financial return on investment. In other geographic areas, concerns about financial return on investment may be the key motivating factor in considering implementation of BVDV control programs. Past experiences indicate that systematic, well-coordinated control programs have a clear potential for success, while voluntary control programs in cultures of distributed decision-making often result in notable initial progress that ultimately ends in dissolution of efforts. Segmentation of the cattle industry into cow-calf producers, stocker/backgrounders, and feedlot operators amplifies the distribution of decision-making regarding control programs and may result in control measures for one industry segment that are associated with significant costs and limited rewards. Though the host range of BVDV extends well beyond cattle, multiple eradication programs that focus only on testing and removal of persistently infected (PI) cattle have proven to be effective in various countries. While some individuals consider education of producers to be sufficient to stimulate eradication of BVDV, research surrounding the adoption of innovative health care procedures suggests that the process of adopting BVDV control programs has a social element. Collegial interactions and discussions may be crucial in facilitating the systematic implementation necessary to optimize the long-term success of control programs. Compulsory control programs may be considered efficient and effective in some regions; however, in a nation where individual identification of cattle remains voluntary, the likelihood of effective compulsion to control BVDV within a farm or ranch appears to be very unlikely. While currently available diagnostic tests are sufficient to support BVDV eradication via systematic, well-coordinated programs, the development of a diagnostic procedure to safely and consistently detect the gestation of a PI fetus after 5 months of gestation would be a valuable research breakthrough. This desired testing modality would allow diagnosis of PI calves, while the dam continues to provide biocontainment of the infected fetus. This development could speed the progress of control programs in achieving the goal of BVDV control and eventual eradication.


pmid: 26050569
title: BVDV vaccination in North America: risks versus benefits
abstract: The control and prevention of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections has provided substantial challenges. Viral genetic variation, persistent infections, and viral tropism for immune cells have complicated disease control strategies. Vaccination has, however, provided an effective tool to prevent acute systemic infections and increase reproductive efficiency through fetal protection. There has been substantial controversy about the safety and efficacy of BVDV vaccines, especially when comparing killed versus modified-live viral (MLV) vaccines. Furthermore, numerous vaccination protocols have been proposed to protect the fetus and ensure maternal antibody transfer to the calf. These issues have been further complicated by reports of immune suppression during natural infections and following vaccination. While killed BVDV vaccines provide the greatest safety, their limited immunogenicity makes multiple vaccinations necessary. In contrast, MLV BVDV vaccines induce a broader range of immune responses with a longer duration of immunity, but require strategic vaccination to minimize potential risks. Vaccination strategies for breeding females and young calves, in the face of maternal antibody, are discussed. With intranasal vaccination of young calves it is possible to avoid maternal antibody interference and induce immune memory that persists for 6-8 months. Thus, with an integrated vaccination protocol for both breeding cows and calves it is possible to maximize disease protection while minimizing vaccine risks.


pmid: 34958424
title: BVDV, BHV-1 and BLV antibodies in dromedary camels of Turkey kept without and with ruminants
abstract: Camels are the only animals bred to sustain the tradition of wrestling in Turkey and are reared within a limited set of geographic areas. Farmers of such animals may also be engaged in ruminant breeding. The current research was aimed at documenting bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), and bovine leukaemia virus (BLV) infections in sera collected from dromedary camels in four different geographical regions of Turkey during the years 2019-2021. All samples were tested for BVDV, BHV-1 and BLV antibodies as well as BVDV antigen by ELISA. Antibodies against BVDV were found in 16.8% of the camel sera tested. However, none of the camels sampled were positive in terms of BHV-1 and BLV antibodies as well as BVDV antigen. The prevalence was observed higher in the herds in which ruminants were raised in addition to camels (OR = 4.583, 95% CI, 1.298-16.182), (p = 0.018), while the prevalence was observed lower in the herds in which only camels were raised. This study showed that BVDV infection was more prevalent than BHV-1 and BLV infections in Turkish dromedary camels. Herewith, the camels, being a susceptible species to numerous viral ruminant diseases, may also serve as an important source of BVDV infection for other ruminant animals in the same flock.


pmid: 23137817
title: The impact of BVDV infection on adaptive immunity
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) causes immunosuppression of the adaptive immune response. The level of suppression of the adaptive immune response is strain dependent. The early events of antigen presentation require activation of toll-like receptors that results in the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Non-cytopathic (ncp) BVDV infection stimulates cytokines from macrophages in vitro but the effect of BVDV infection in vivo on macrophages or in vitro with monocytes is not clear. Antigen presentation is decreased and co-stimulatory molecules are down regulated. T-lymphocytes numbers are reduced following BVDV infection in a strain dependent manner. There is recruitment of lymphocytes to the bronchial alveolar space following cytopathic (cp) BVDV infection. Depletion of T-lymphocytes occurs in the lymphoid tissue and is strain dependent. BVDV cp T-lymphocyte responses appear to be primarily a T helper 1 response while the response following ncp BVDV induces a T helper 2 response. Cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTL), an important BVDV defense mechanism are compromised. The major neutralizing antigens are well characterized but cross-protection between strains is variable. PI animals have normal adaptive immune responses with the exception of the PI strain immunotolerance and mucosal disease may be a function of the level of gamma delta T cells.


pmid: 34513967
title: Why Test Purchased Cattle in BVDV Control Programs?
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) is controlled in many countries by detection and culling of persistently infected (PI) animals. The most important risk factor for BVDV introduction is purchase. An introduced cow can be PI and transmit the virus to other cattle in the herd. If she is not PI but is pregnant, there is still a risk because the subsequently born calf may be PI, when she encountered the virus in early pregnancy. To control this risk, all cows > 1 year from non-BVDV-free herds that are introduced in herds that participate in the Dutch BVDV control program are tested for virus and antibodies. Depending on the results, subsequent measures such as suspension of the BVDV-free status, removing the animals from the herd, or testing the off-spring of the cow for virus, are undertaken. The aim of this study was to evaluate the results of this risk mitigating measure. Data on cattle movements, calving's, herd-level BVDV status, and animal-level test data were available from all dairy herds that participated in the national BVDV control program (>14,000 dairy herds) for the year 2019. The data were combined and parameters of interest were calculated, i.e., (i) the number of purchased BVD virus positive cattle and (ii) the number of BVD virus positive calves born from purchased cows within 9 months after introduction. In 2019, 217,301 cattle were introduced in Dutch dairy herds that participated in the BVDV control program. Of these, 49,820 were tested for presence of BVD virus and 27 (0.05%) cows introduced in 21 different herds tested BVD virus positive. Out of 46,727 cattle that were tested for antibodies, 20.5% tested positive. The seropositive cows produced 4,341 viable calves, of which 3,062 were tested for virus and subsequently, 40 (1.3%) were found BVD virus positive. These 40 BVD virus positive calves were born in 23 herds. The risk mitigating measure led to detection of 67 BVD virus positive animals in 44 unique herds in 2019. This study makes plausible that the probability and impact of re-introduction of BVDV can be minimized by testing introduced cattle and their subsequently born calves.


pmid: 23587625
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections in pigs
abstract: Cattle are the natural hosts of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), which causes mucosal disease, respiratory and gastrointestinal tract infections, and reproductive problems in cattle. However, BVDV can also infect goats, sheep, deer, and pigs. The prevalence of BVDV infection in pig herds has substantially increased in the last several years, causing increased economic losses to the global pig breeding industry. This article is a summary of BVDV infections in pigs, including a historical overview, clinical signs, pathology, source of infection, genetic characteristics, impacts of porcine BVDV infection for diagnosis of classical swine fever virus (CSFV), differentiation of infection with CSFV and BVDV, and future prospects of porcine BVDV infection.


pmid: 22458199
title: Preventive strategy for BVDV infection in North America
abstract: Despite 60 years of vaccination, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections remain a source of significant economic loss for producers in the United States. Control program design in the United States varies by region based on the incidence of BVDV, density of animal populations, animal movement, contact with wildlife populations, level of producer compliance, variation among circulating BVDV strains, prevalent type of production unit or industry and support offered by state institutions. The Upper Peninsula BVDV Eradication Program in Michigan, the Montana BVD-PI Herd Biosecurity Project, the Washington State BVDV Testing program and the Alabama Voluntary BVD Control Program illustrates four different regional approaches. All four programs are voluntary rather than government mandated and a large component of each was the identification and removal of animals persistently infected with BVDV. The Washington, Montana and Alabama programs focus on herd screening to eliminate PI's but did not have eradication as a goal. The Michigan program was unique in that its goal was to eradicate BVDV from a defined geographic region. While the Washington, Alabama and Montana programs were beneficial to individual producers they did not have a significant impact on the prevalence of BVDV. In contrast, the Michigan program has reduced incidence of herds harboring PI animals in the region. Organizers of all four programs noted that compliance with control programs was directly linked to education and the presence of a support network composed of fellow producers, engaged veterinarians and knowledgeable diagnosticians.


pmid: 33451136
title: BoHV-1-Vectored BVDV-2 Subunit Vaccine Induces BVDV Cross-Reactive Cellular Immune Responses and Protects against BVDV-2 Challenge
abstract: The bovine respiratory disease complex (BRDC) remains a major problem for both beef and dairy cattle industries worldwide. BRDC frequently involves an initial viral respiratory infection resulting in immunosuppression, which creates a favorable condition for fatal secondary bacterial infection. Current polyvalent modified live vaccines against bovine herpesvirus type 1(BoHV-1) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) have limitations concerning their safety and efficacy. To address these shortcomings and safety issues, we have constructed a quadruple gene mutated BoHV-1 vaccine vector (BoHV-1 QMV), which expresses BVDV type 2, chimeric E2 and Flag-tagged Erns-fused with bovine granulocyte monocyte colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) designated here as QMV-BVD2*. Here we compared the safety, immunogenicity, and protective efficacy of QMV-BVD2* vaccination in calves against BVDV-2 with Zoetis Bovi-shield Gold 3 trivalent (BoHV-1, BVDV types 1 and 2) vaccine. The QMV-BVD2* prototype subunit vaccine induced the BoHV-1 and BVDV-2 neutralizing antibody responses along with BVDV-1 and -2 cross-reactive cellular immune responses. Moreover, after a virulent BVDV-2 challenge, the QMV-BVD2* prototype subunit vaccine conferred a more rapid recall BVDV-2-specific neutralizing antibody response and considerably better recall BVDV types 1 and 2-cross protective cellular immune responses than that of the Zoetis Bovi-shield Gold 3.


pmid: 30819426
title: Efficacy of a voluntary BVDV control programme: Experiences from the Netherlands
abstract: The outcomes of a voluntary bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) control programme that has been in place in the Netherlands since 1997 were analysed. This 'BVDV-free' programme was studied in dairy herds in the period 1 August 2007 to 1 August 2013. The programme was based on a test and cull approach at the herd level, after which the BVDV status was monitored by testing young stock for antibodies against BVDV or by antigen testing of newborn calves. One of the challenges of the programme was that, without any legislation or subsidies, farmers had to be motivated to pay all costs involved, with eradication of BVDV from their farm as the only incentive. During the study period, the percentage of dairy farms with a 'BVDV-free' status in the Netherlands increased from 13% to 24%, while the prevalence of active BVDV infections in Dutch dairy herds decreased. This may be related to the increasing number of participants in the 'BVDV-free' programme.


pmid: 17663212
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) diversity and vaccination. A review
abstract: BVDV is associated with a range of economically important clinical diseases including reproductive disorders and acute fatal haemorrhagic disease in cattle industry. Vaccination is still the most important control strategy for controlling BVDV infections in many countries of the world. The existence of great genetic and antigenic diversity of BVDV isolates is very important concern for BVDV vaccine development and protective efficacy of current vaccines. In this review, the protective efficacies of the selected examples of BVDV vaccines with regard to BVDV diversity and the novel marker vaccine development studies are discussed.


pmid: 22458198
title: BVDV control and eradication in Europe--an update
abstract: Infections with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) are endemic in cattle populations worldwide and result in major economic losses. For long, attempts to control BVDV were limited to prophylactic vaccination practices, implemented primarily to reduce or prevent clinical disease on a herd basis. However, the benefit of preventing clinical disease in transiently infected animals is negligible when considering the overall losses of the disease. Another more systematic strategy to control evolved during the 1990s within eradication programmes in the Scandinavian countries. This was based on an initial determination of herd BVDV status, followed by implementation of systematic zoo-sanitary measures at a regional or national scale (without the use of vaccines) to prevent introduction of BVDV in non-infected herds, and to reduce the prevalence of infected herds by identification and elimination of PI animals. These programmes have been very successful, and all of the Scandinavian countries are currently either free, or almost free from BVDV. Today control programmes are underway in several European countries. This short review discusses the general model of BVDV control, and gives an overview of strategies used within, and the current status of, the ongoing control programmes in Europe.


pmid: 33300445
title: Infection of polarized bovine respiratory epithelial cells by bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is affecting cattle populations all over the world causing acute disease, immunosuppressive effects, respiratory diseases, gastrointestinal, and reproductive failure in cattle. The virus is taken up via the oronasal route and infection of epithelial and immune cells contributes to the dissemination of the virus throughout the body. However, it is not known how the virus gets across the barrier of epithelial cells encountered in the airways. Here, we analyzed the infection of polarized primary bovine airway epithelial cells (BAEC). Infection of BAEC by a non-cytopathogenic BVDV was possible via both the apical and the basolateral plasma membrane, but the infection was most efficient when the virus was applied to the basolateral plasma membrane. Irrespective of the site of infection, BVDV was efficiently released to the apical site, while only minor amounts of virus were detected in the basal medium. This indicates that the respiratory epithelium can release large amounts of BVDV to the environment and susceptible animals via respiratory fluids and aerosols, but BVDV cannot cross the airway epithelial cells to infect subepithelial cells and establish systemic infection. Further experiments showed that the receptor, bovine CD46, for BVDV is expressed predominantly on the apical membrane domain of the polarized epithelial cells. In a CD46 blocking experiment, the addition of an antibody directed against CD46 almost completely inhibited apical infection, whereas basolateral infection was not affected. While CD46 serves as a receptor for apical infection of BAEC by BVDV, the receptor for basolateral infection remains to be elucidated.


pmid: 12770543
title: Maternal antibody blocks humoral but not T cell responses to BVDV
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) contributes significantly to health-related economic losses in the beef and dairy industry. Antibodies of maternal origin can be protective against BVDV infection, however, calves with low titres of maternal antibody or that do not receive colostrum may be at risk for acute BVDV infection. Interference by high titres of maternal antibodies prevents the development of an antibody response following vaccination with either a killed or attenuated BVDV vaccine. However, the T cell mediated immune response to BVDV may be generated in the absence of a detectable serum neutralizing antibody response. Two trials were conducted to evaluate the potential to elicit T cell mediated immune responses to BVDV in calves with circulating maternal antibody to BVDV. In the first trial, calves with high levels of circulating maternal antibody to BVDV 1 and BVDV 2 were experimentally infected with BVDV 2 (strain 1373) at two to five weeks of age. The T-cell mediated immune responses of the experimentally infected calves and non-infected calves were monitored monthly until circulating maternal antibody was no longer detectable in either treatment group. Calves experimentally infected with BVDV developed BVDV specific CD4(+), CD8(+), and delta T cell responses while high levels of maternal antibody were circulating. A second challenge with BVDV 2 (strain 1373) was performed in the experimentally infected and control calves once maternal antibody could no longer be detected. Previous exposure to BVDV in the presence of maternal antibody protected calves from clinical signs of acute BVDV infection compared to the control calves. In the second trial, three groups of calves with circulating maternal antibody to BVDV were given either a modified live vaccine (MLV) containing BVDV 1 and BVDV 2, a killed vaccine containing BVDV 1 and BVDV 2, or no vaccine, at seven weeks of age. Serum neutralizing antibody levels and antigen specific T cell responses were monitored for 14 weeks following vaccination. Calves vaccinated with MLV BVDV developed BVDV 1 and BVDV 2 specific CD4(+)T cell responses, and BVDV 2 specific gammadelta T cell responses, in the presence of maternal antibody. Vaccination with killed BVDV did not result in the generation of measurable antigen specific T cell immune responses. In this trial, a second vaccination was performed at 14 weeks to determine whether an anamnestic antibody response could be generated when calves were vaccinated in the presence of maternal antibody. Calves vaccinated with either a MLV or killed BVDV vaccine while they had maternal antibody developed an anamnestic antibody response to BVDV 2 upon subsequent vaccination. The results of these trials indicate that vaccinating young calves against BVD while maternal antibody is present may generate BVDV specific memory T and B cells. The data also demonstrated that seronegative calves with memory T and B cells specific for BVDV may be immune to challenge with virulent BVDV.


pmid: 31790941
title: BVDV permissiveness and lack of expression of co-stimulatory molecules on PBMCs from calves pre-infected with BVDV
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has been detected in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of immunocompetent animals, not being clear whether the development of a specific humoral immune response can prevent BVDV infection. The aim of this study was to evaluate the ability of non-cytopathic BVDV to replicate and produce infectious virus in PBMCs from calves pre-infected with BVDV and to elucidate the immunomodulatory effect of BVDV on these cells in an in vitro model. Quantification of virus was by quantitative PCR, while its replicative capacity and shedding into the extracellular environment was evaluated by viral titration. Apoptosis was assessed by flow cytometry analysis of annexin V and propidium iodide, and by expression of caspase-3/7. Flow cytometry was used to analyze the expression of CD14/CD11b/CD80, CD4/CD8/CD25, MHC-I/MHC-II and B-B2 markers. Our results showed that PBMCs from cattle naturally infected with BVDV were more susceptible to in vitro BVDV infection and showed a more severe apoptosis response than those from naïve animals. Non-cytopathic BVDV in vitro infection also resulted in a lack of effect in the expression of antigen presentation surface markers. All these findings could be related to the immunosuppressive capacity of BVDV and the susceptibility of cattle to this infection.


pmid: 26867641
title: Difficulties arising from the variety of testing schemes used for bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV)
abstract: Globally, the eradication of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is still in its infancy, but eradication has been, or is being, adopted by several countries or regions. Comparisons between countries' schemes allow others to assess best practice, and aggregating published results from eradication schemes provides greater statistical power when analysing data. Aggregating data requires that results derived from different testing schemes be calibrated against one another. The authors aimed to evaluate whether relationships between published BVDV test results could be created and present the outcome of a systematic literature review following the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines. The results are tabulated, providing a summary of papers where there is potential cross-calibration and a summary of the obstacles preventing such data aggregation. Although differences in measuring BVDV present barriers to academic progress, they may also affect progress within individual eradication schemes. The authors examined the time taken to retest following an initial antibody BVDV test in the Scottish eradication scheme. The authors demonstrate that retesting occurred quicker if the initial not negative test was from blood rather than milk samples. Such differences in the response of farmers/veterinarians to tests may be of interest to the design of future schemes.


pmid: 20858174
title: What is known about the antiviral agents active against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)?
abstract: Viruses belonging to the Flaviviridae family cause clinically significant diseases in humans and animals. This family includes three genera: Pestivirus [including bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)], Flavivirus [including yellow fever virus (YFV), dengue virus, and West Nile virus (WNV)], and Hepacivirus [including hepatitis C virus (HCV)]. BVDV is responsible for major losses in cattle, causing a range of clinical manifestations, and is also a problematic contaminant in the laboratory. Noncytopathic BVDV infection can remain unnoticed and infect laboratory cell lines through its presence in contaminated bovine serum used in cell culture. BVDV is considered to be a valuable surrogate virus model for identifying and characterizing antiviral agents to be used against HCV. In some aspects of viral replication, BVDV is more advantageous than the currently used HCV replicon systems. In this review, we report the design, synthesis, and activity against BVDV of a series of compounds assayed until now.


pmid: 34350227
title: The Principles of the Voluntary Programme for the Control and Elimination of Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) From Infected Herds in Slovenia
abstract: In Slovenia, the control of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infections started in 1994. Since 2014, a voluntary programme has been running according to the national rules that prescribe the conditions for recognising, acquiring, and maintaining a BVDV-free status for an individual herd. The principle is based on periodical laboratory testing and preventive measures that need to be strictly implemented in a herd. Between 2014 and 2020, a total of 348 herds were included in BVDV antibody testing, and 25.0% of tested herds were detected to be BVDV antibody positive. To recognise the BVDV-free status of the herd, the breeder should provide two consecutive tests with intervals of at least 6 months in all animals in the age from 7 to 13 months, with negative results for BVDV antibodies in ELISA. The BVDV-free status of the herd can be maintained by implementing preventive measures and can be renewed each year with one laboratory test in the age group of animals from 7 to 13 months for antibodies in ELISA. During the 7 years of the voluntary programme, 236 herds were included in the detection of BVDV in individual herds by real-time RT-PCR method and the elimination of positive animals from herds. In 71 (31.3%) herds, at least one BVDV-positive animal was detected, with the identification of a total of 267 persistently infected (PI) animals, representing an average of 2.9% of tested animals. The cost of testing for an average herd, recognised as BVDV-negative, and maintaining its BVDV-free status within the implemented voluntary programme, was €97.64/year, while for the average positive herd, the laboratory costs for elimination of BVDV were €189.59/year. Only limited progress towards eradication at the national level has been achieved in Slovenia since 2014.


pmid: 33258421
title: Comprehensive analysis of lncRNA expression profiles in cytopathic biotype BVDV-infected MDBK cells provides an insight into biological contexts of host-BVDV interactions
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is the causative agent of bovine viral diarrhea-mucosal disease, which significantly affects the production performance of cattle, causing serious economic losses to the cattle industries worldwide. Up to now, some mechanisms involved in host-BVDV interaction are still not fully understood. The discovery of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) has provided a new perspective on gene regulation in diverse biological contexts, particularly in viral infection and host immune responses. However, little is known about the profiles and functions of lncRNAs in host cells in response to BVDV infection. Here, we utilized Illumina sequencing to explore lncRNAs profiles in cytopathic (CP) biotype BVDV-infected MDBK cells to further reveal the potential roles of lncRNAs in BVDV infection and host-BVDV interaction with integrated analysis of lncRNAs and mRNA expression profiles. A total of 1747 significantly differentially expressed genes, DEGs (156 lncRNAs and 1591 mRNAs) were obtained via RNA-seq in BVDV-infected MDBK cells compared to mock-infected cells. Next, these DE lncRNAs and mRNAs were subjected to construct lncRNAs-mRNAs co-expression network followed by the prediction of potential functions of the DE lncRNAs. Co-expression network analysis elucidated that DE lncRNAs were significant enrichment in NOD-like receptor, TNF, NF-ĸB, ErbB, Ras, apoptosis, and fatty acid biosynthesis pathways, indicating that DE lncRNAs play important roles in host-BVDV interactions. Our data give an overview of changes in transcriptome and potential roles of lncRNAs, providing molecular biology basis for further exploring the mechanisms of host-BVDV interaction.


pmid: 32690424
title: Multivariate analysis as a method to evaluate antigenic relationships between BVDV vaccine and field strains
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is comprised of two species, BVDV-1 and BVDV-2, but given the genetic diversity among pestiviruses, at least 21 subgenotypes are described for BVDV-1 and 4 for BVDV-2. Genetic characterization can be achieved through complete or partial sequencing and phylogeny, but antigenic characterization can be difficult to determine due to the antigenic diversity and cross-neutralization that exists among isolates. The traditional method for evaluating antigenic relationships between pestivirus isolates is the virus neutralization (VN) assay, but interpretation of the data to determine antigenic difference can be unclear. Data from this study utilized a multivariate analysis for visualization of VN results to analyze the antigenic relationships between vaccine strains and multiple field isolates. Polyclonal sera were generated against 6 BVDV strains currently contained in vaccine formulations, and each serum was used in VN's to measure the neutralizing antibody titers against 15 BVDV field isolates characterized as prevalent and divergent subgenotypes in the USA. Principal component analysis (PCA) were performed on the VN assay datasets, and results were interpreted from PCA clustering within the PCA dendrogram and scatter plot. The results demonstrated clustering patterns among isolates suggestive of antigenic differences. While expected, the BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 isolates did not cluster together and had the greatest spatial distribution. In addition, other BVDV isolates had distinct spatial patterns suggesting antigenically divergent isolates. This analysis provides an alternative and more efficient means to analyze large VN datasets to visualize antigenic relationships between pestivirus isolates. This analysis could be beneficial for vaccine development and evaluation of efficacy, since most vaccines cannot fully protect animals from the broad range diversity of BVDV viruses.


pmid: 31654683
title: Removal of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) from lumpy skin disease virus (LSDV) vaccine stocks by passage on chorioallantoic membranes of fertilized hens' eggs
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a common contaminant of Madin-Darby bovine kidney (MDBK) cells as well as fetal calf serum (FCS). It is pathogenic to cattle and regulatory authorities require that veterinary vaccine stocks are free from BVDV. MDBK cells are used in the generation of recombinant lumpy skin disease virus (LSDV) and have been used for the growth of LSDV vaccines. This paper describes how vaccine stocks can be cleared of BVDV by passage through an avian host, nonpermissive to BVDV, but permissive to LSDV. LSDV vaccine stocks were shown to be cleared of BVDV after passage on the chorioallantoic membranes (CAMs) of fertilized 7-day old hens' eggs. Vaccines were passaged a second time on CAMs before being grown in primary lamb testes (LT) cells. Vaccines retained BVDV-negative status after passage on LT cells.


pmid: 30160150
title: Quantitative and rapid interference of bovine viral diarrhea virus BVDV/END- and BVDV/END+ strains
abstract: Homologous interference in vitro is defined as the ability of primary viral infection to prevent secondary homologous superinfection. Non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (ncp BVDV) has been classified according to the exaltation of Newcastle disease phenomenon (END) as END positive (E+) and END negative (E-) strains. Simultaneous inoculation of MDBK-SY cell monolayers with BVDV/E- virus and a three log higher amount of BVDV RK13/E+ virus, leads to acquisition of the BVDV/E- feature of blocking Newcastle disease virus (NDV) infection in cells. BVDV/E- strains, particularly at a high titre and MOI ≥1.25, can exert and impose their effects in BVDV/E+ infected cells; however, if BVDV/E- MOI is reduced to MOI below 0.625, the BVDV/E+ effect can be restored leading to cytopathic effects (CPE) induction by NDV reciprocal to the titre of the BVDV RK13/E+ strain. Moreover, blocking and prevention of induced CPE by NDV or vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) occurs even when BVDV/E- superinfects primary BVDV/E+ infected cells, indicating a defective homologous interference between BVDV/E+ and BVDV/E- strains. Taken together, BVDV/E- strains have a strong competitive potency and mediate a fast acting (i.e. within 60 min) influence against BVDV/E+ activity. This may be relevant in vivo where BVDV/E- and BVDV/E+ combinations are frequently isolated from infected individuals.


pmid: 27586238
title: Natural Outbreak of BVDV-1d-Induced Mucosal Disease Lacking Intestinal Lesions
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) belongs to the Pestivirus genus, which is further divided into subgenotypes (1a-1u and 2a-c). When persistent infection occurs, the calf will be immunotolerant to BVDV and possibly develop mucosal disease. This study describes an outbreak of BVDV-1d-induced mucosal disease lacking intestinal lesions. Eleven calves presented with anorexia, sialorrhea, lameness, recumbency, and death. Three calves were necropsied, showing ulceration of the interdigital skin and the oral and nasal mucosa; linear ulcers in the tongue, esophagus, and rumen; and rounded ulcers in the abomasum. Microscopically, mucosa and skin had superficial necrosis, with single-cell necrosis and vacuolation in epithelial cells, and severe parakeratosis. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) showed BVDV antigen in the cytoplasm of epithelial cells in skin and mucosa. All 11 dead calves were positive upon reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for the detection of Pestivirus along with another 11 live calves from the herd, which were positive again by RT-PCR and IHC after a 4-week interval. Sequencing of the 5' untranslated region and N-terminal protease showed that viruses from these 22 calves were homologous and of subgenotype BVDV-1d. Cytopathic BVDV was isolated from 8 of 11 dead calves, but only noncytopathic BVDV was isolated from the 11 live animals. The findings indicate that this was an outbreak of mucosal disease caused by BVDV-1d, with high morbidity, and lesions restricted to the upper alimentary system and skin and absent from intestine. Thus, the epidemiological and pathological features in this form of mucosal disease may be similar to vesicular diseases, including foot and mouth disease.


pmid: 31790941
title: BVDV permissiveness and lack of expression of co-stimulatory molecules on PBMCs from calves pre-infected with BVDV
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has been detected in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of immunocompetent animals, not being clear whether the development of a specific humoral immune response can prevent BVDV infection. The aim of this study was to evaluate the ability of non-cytopathic BVDV to replicate and produce infectious virus in PBMCs from calves pre-infected with BVDV and to elucidate the immunomodulatory effect of BVDV on these cells in an in vitro model. Quantification of virus was by quantitative PCR, while its replicative capacity and shedding into the extracellular environment was evaluated by viral titration. Apoptosis was assessed by flow cytometry analysis of annexin V and propidium iodide, and by expression of caspase-3/7. Flow cytometry was used to analyze the expression of CD14/CD11b/CD80, CD4/CD8/CD25, MHC-I/MHC-II and B-B2 markers. Our results showed that PBMCs from cattle naturally infected with BVDV were more susceptible to in vitro BVDV infection and showed a more severe apoptosis response than those from naïve animals. Non-cytopathic BVDV in vitro infection also resulted in a lack of effect in the expression of antigen presentation surface markers. All these findings could be related to the immunosuppressive capacity of BVDV and the susceptibility of cattle to this infection.


pmid: 20197026
title: Cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV): emerging pestiviruses doomed to extinction
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a Flaviviridae pestivirus, is arguably one of the most widespread cattle pathogens worldwide. Each of its two genotypes has two biotypes, non-cytopathic (ncp) and cytopathic (cp). Only the ncp biotype of BVDV may establish persistent infection in the fetus when infecting a dam early in gestation, a time point which predates maturity of the adaptive immune system. Such fetuses may develop and be born healthy but remain infected for life. Due to this early initiation of fetal infection and to the expression of interferon antagonistic proteins, persistently infected (PI) animals remain immunotolerant to the infecting viral strain. Although only accounting for some 1% of all animals in regions where BVDV is endemic, PI animals ensure the viral persistence in the host population. These animals may, however, develop the fatal mucosal disease, which is characterized by widespread lesions in the gastrointestinal tract. Cp BVD virus, in addition to the persisting ncp biotype, can be isolated from such animals. The cp viruses are characterized by unrestrained genome replication, and their emergence from the persisting ncp ones is due to mutations that are unique in each virus analyzed. They include recombinations with host cell mRNA, gene translocations and duplications, and point mutations. Cytopathic BVD viruses fail to establish chains of infection and are unable to cause persistent infection. Hence, these viruses illustrate a case of "viral emergence to extinction" - irrelevant for BVDV evolution, but fatal for the PI host.


pmid: 19875253
title: Novel BVDV-2 mutants as new candidates for modified-live vaccines
abstract: Protection against Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type 2 infection of commercially available vaccines is often limited due to marked genetic and antigenic differences between BVDV types 1 (BVDV-1) and 2 (BVDV-2). Therefore, the immunogenicity of selected BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 mutants derived from infectious full-length cDNA clones and their use as modified-live vaccine candidates against challenge infection with a virulent heterologous BVDV-2 field isolate were investigated. Deletion mutants of BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 lacking a part of the N(pro) gene (BVDV-1DeltaN(pro)/BVDV-2DeltaN(pro)) were used as well as a packaged replicon with a deletion in the structural core protein encoding region (BVDV-2DeltaC-pseudovirions). The 25 calves used in this vaccination/challenge trial were allocated in five groups (n=5/group). One group received BVDV-1DeltaN(pro) (1 shot), one group BVDV-2DeltaN(pro) (1 shot), one group received both, BVDV-1DeltaN(pro) and BVDV-2DeltaN(pro) (1 shot), and one group was immunised with the BVDV-2DeltaC-pseudovirions (2 shots). The fifth group served as non-vaccinated control group. All groups were challenged intranasally with the BVDV-2 strain HI916 and monitored for signs of clinical disease, virus shedding and viremia. All tested BVDV vaccine candidates markedly reduced the outcome of the heterologous virulent BVDV-2 challenge infection showing graduated protective effects. The BVDV-2DeltaN(pro) mutant was able to induce complete protection and a "sterile immunity" upon challenge. Thus it represents a promising candidate for an efficacious future live vaccine.


pmid: 10028165
title: Epidemiological features and economical importance of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infections
abstract: Infections with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) are widespread throughout the world. Although the prevalence of infection varies among surveys, the infection tends to be endemic in many populations, reaching a maximum level of 1-2% of the cattle being persistently infected (PI) and 60-85% of the cattle being antibody positive. Persistently infected cattle are the main source for transmission of the virus. However, acutely infected cattle as well as other ruminants, either acutely or persistently infected, may transmit the virus. Transmission is most efficient by direct contact. However, as infections have been observed in closed, non-pasturing herds, other transmission routes seem likely to have some practical importance. Differences in BVDV prevalence among regions or introduction of virus in herds previously free of BVDV are often associated with particular epidemiological determinants such as cattle population density, animal trade and pasturing practices. However, on a few occasions there have been no obvious explanations for infection of individual herds. Estimates of economic losses due to BVDV infection vary depending on the immune status of the population and the pathogenicity of the infecting virus strains. Introduction of the infection into a totally susceptible population invariably causes extensive losses until a state of equilibrium is reached. Infection with highly virulent BVDV strains causing severe clinical signs and death after acute infection gives rise to substantial economical losses. At an estimated annual incidence of acute infections of 34%, the total annual losses were estimated as US$ 20 million per million calvings when modeling the losses due to a low-virulent BVDV strain. At the same incidence of infection, the losses due to a high-virulent BVDV strain were estimated as US$ 57 million per million calvings. Low-virulent BVDV infections caused maximum losses at an incidence of 45%, whereas high-virulent BVDV infections caused maximum losses at an incidence of 65%. Thus, cost-benefit analyses of control programs are highly dependent on the risks of new infections under different circumstances and on the strains of the virus involved.


pmid: 31415943
title: In vitro method to evaluate virus competition between BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 strains using the PrimeFlow RNA assay
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV), segregated in BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 species, lead to substantial economic losses to the cattle industry worldwide. It has been hypothesized that there could be differences in level of replication, pathogenesis and tissue tropism between BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 strains. Thus, this study developed an in vitro method to evaluate virus competition between BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 strains. To this end the competitive dynamics of BVDV-1a, BVDV-1b, and BVDV-2a strains in cell cultures was evaluated by a PrimeFlow RNA assay. Similar results were observed in this study, as was observed in an earlier in vivo transmission study. Competitive exclusion was observed as the BVDV-2a strains dominated and excluded the BVDV-1a and BVDV-1b strains. The in vitro model developed can be used to identify viral variations that result in differences in frequency of subgenotypes detected in the field, vaccine failure, pathogenesis, and strain dependent variation in immune responses.


pmid: 27617959
title: Forsythoside A Inhibits BVDV Replication via TRAF2-Dependent CD28-4-1BB Signaling in Bovine PBMCs
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), the causative agent of bovine viral diarrhea/mucosal disease (BVD/MD), is an important pathogen of cattle and other wild animals throughout the world. BVDV infection typically leads to an impaired immune response in cattle. In the present study, we investigated the effect of Forsythoside A (FTA) on BVDV infection of bovine peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). We found that Forsythoside A could not only promote proliferation of PBMCs and T cells activation but also inhibit the replication of BVDV as well as apoptosis induced by BVDV. FTA treatment could counteract the BVDV-induced overproduction of IFN-γ to maintain the immune homeostasis in bovine PBMCs. At same time, FTA can enhance the secretion of IL-2. What's more, BVDV promotes the expression of CD28, 4-1BB and TRAF-2, which can be modulated by FTA. Our data suggest that FTA protects PBMCs from BVDV infection possibly via TRAF2-dependent CD28-4-1BB signaling, which may activate PBMCs in response to BVDV infection. Therefore, this aids in the development of an effective adjuvant for vaccines against BVDV and other specific FTA-based therapies for preventing BVDV infection.


pmid: 32336600
title: Immune response to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) vaccines detecting antibodies to BVDV subtypes 1a, 1b, 2a, and 2c
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) represents a major cattle disease with multiple forms including fetal infections resulting in persistently infected (PI) cattle. The objectives of this study were to investigate the immune response to six vaccines, five modified live viral (MLV) and one killed vaccine containing BVDV immunogens as measured by antibodies to BVDV1a, BVDV1b, BVDV2a, and BVDV2c. The predominant BVDV subgenotype in the U.S. is BVDV1b compared to BVDV1a and BVDV2a. There are MLV and killed BVDV vaccines containing BVDV1a and BVDV2a marketed in the U.S. A prior study evaluated immune response to vaccination with BVDV1a and BVDV2a inducing virus neutralizing antibody titers. BVDV1b titers 128 or higher at time of exposure to BVDV1b PI cattle protected heifers against fetal infection. Calves received two doses and postweaning serums were collected and assayed for BVDV antibodies. Antibody titers were expressed as geometric mean averages. Percentages were expressed as proportions of animals within three antibody levels, including targeted level 128 or greater. There were statistical differences among vaccines in each study, particularly to BVDV1a, BVDV1b, and BVDV2a. MLV vaccines containing Singer strain induced higher levels to BVDV1a and BVDV1b than NADL vaccine in all three studies. Two vaccines, both MLV, Vaccine 1 and Vaccine 6 containing Singer strain induced higher proportion of 128 or higher BVDV1b titers than vaccine with NADL. Antibody levels to BVDV2a and BVDV2c were dependent on BVDV2a vaccine strain. This study indicates strain in BVDV vaccines reflects differences in immune response to different BVDV subgenotypes, particularly BVDV1b and BVDV2c.


pmid: 32610565
title: The Effect of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) Strains and the Corresponding Infected-Macrophages' Supernatant on Macrophage Inflammatory Function and Lymphocyte Apoptosis
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an important viral disease of cattle that causes immune dysfunction. Macrophages are the key cells for the initiation of the innate immunity and play an important role in viral pathogenesis. In this in vitro study, we studied the effect of the supernatant of BVDV-infected macrophage on immune dysfunction. We infected bovine monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) with high or low virulence strains of BVDV. The supernatant recovered from BVDV-infected MDM was used to examine the functional activity and surface marker expression of normal macrophages as well as lymphocyte apoptosis. Supernatants from the highly virulent 1373-infected MDM reduced phagocytosis, bactericidal activity and downregulated MHC II and CD14 expression of macrophages. Supernatants from 1373-infected MDM induced apoptosis in MDBK cells, lymphocytes or BL-3 cells. By protein electrophoresis, several protein bands were unique for high-virulence, 1373-infected MDM supernatant. There was no significant difference in the apoptosis-related cytokine mRNA (IL-1beta, IL-6 and TNF-a) of infected MDM. These data suggest that BVDV has an indirect negative effect on macrophage functions that is strain-specific. Further studies are required to determine the identity and mechanism of action of these virulence factors present in the supernatant of the infected macrophages.


pmid: 26483584
title: Acute BVDV-2 infection in beef calves delays humoral responses to a non-infectious antigen challenge
abstract: Immunosuppressive effects of an intranasal challenge with non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) 2a (strain 1373) were assessed through acquired and innate immune system responses to ovalbumin (OVA). Concurrent BVDV infection was hypothesized to delay and reduce the humoral response to ovalbumin (administered on days 3 and 15 post-inoculation). Infected animals followed the expected clinical course. BVDV titers, and anti-BVDV antibodies confirmed the course of infection and were not affected by the administration of OVA. Both the T-helper (CD4(+)) and B-cell (CD20(+)) compartments were significantly (P < 0.05) reduced in infected animals, while the gamma-delta T-cell population (Workshop cluster 1+, WC1(+)) decreased slightly in numbers. Infection with BVDV delayed the increase in OVA IgG by approximately 3 d from day 12 through day 21 post-inoculation. Between days 25 and 37 post-inoculation following BVDV infection the IgM concentration in the BVDV- group decreased while the OVA IgM titer still was rising in the BVDV+ animals. Thus, active BVDV infection delays IgM and IgG responses to a novel, non-infectious antigen.


pmid: 30535897
title: Investigation of persistent infection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in Holstein dairy cows
abstract: The aim of this study was to investigate the persistent infection (PI) of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) along with its coexistence between BVDV antibody titer and BVD virus in blood of Holstein dairy cows. Only large commercial farms (each contained < 1000-3000 unvaccinated cows) were included. There were 11 dairy cattle herds. They included nearly 20,000 dairy cows. Totally, 140 cows, > 3 months to almost 10 years old, were randomly sampled. Indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) were used to detect BVDV antibody and virus, respectively. The percent positivity (PP) < 14 and ≥ 14 values are interpreted negative and positive, respectively. Simultaneously, whole blood samples pooled in groups of 10 animals were used for molecular detection of BVDV. The results revealed that 138 (98.56%) out of 140 cows were positive for BVDV antibody, while the BVDV antigen was detected only in 2 (1.42%) cows, which were negative for BVDV antibody and so were considered as persistent infection (PI) cows. They were also retested 3 weeks apart. Since the results showed the strong coexistence between seropositivity and BVD virus, in the infected dairy cattle herds, the combination of simple ELISA and pooled whole blood RT-PCR strategy could be an achievable approach to detect PI animals.


pmid: 16216353
title: Estimated BVDV-prevalence, -contact and -vaccine use in dairy herds in Northern Portugal
abstract: A study to evaluate BVDV-prevalence, recent -contact and -vaccine use in dairy herds in the "Entre Douro e Minho" (EDM) region in North Portugal was carried out in 124 dairy herds in 2003. Herds were visited to ascertain BVDV-vaccine use and to collect a bulk tank milk (BTM) sample and serum from 1268 cattle to analyse BVDV-antibodies using an NS2-3 ELISA. Fifty-three percent of farmers used inactivated BVDV-vaccines whilst the remaining farmers were not presently using BVDV-vaccines. BMT-antibody results included 35% positives, 25% negative and 39% inconclusive, and were similar in vaccinated and non-vaccinated herds (p>0.05) and allowed estimating a 10% BVDV herd-prevalence from prior knowledge of the relationship between BMT-antibody results and probability of PI cattle in the herd. Overall individual seroprevalence was 27% and was 23% in non-vaccinated and 36% in vaccinated cattle (p<0.05). Contact of the herd with BVDV was assessed according to seroprevalence in young and adult cattle in the herd and it was estimated that 35% of herds were infected or had recent contact with BVDV, 40% were not infected and did not have recent contact with BVDV and the BVDV-infection and -contact status of remaining herds was undetermined. The results from this study indicate BVDV is endemic and BVDV-vaccines are widespread in the dairy-cattle population in EDM region in Portugal.


pmid: 21060245
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in relation to fertility in heifers
abstract: In this study, blood serum and leukocyte samples were collected from 400 Holstein heifers, all of which appeared to be healthy. Antibodies (Ab) against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were detected in 57 serum samples, and BVDV antigen (Ag) was detected in 38 leukocyte samples. There were statistically important differences between the average first insemination ages (FIT) of the BVDV (Ag-/Ab+) heifers (p<0.0001) (pregnant p<0.05, nonpregnant p<0.0001) and BVDV (Ag-/Ab-) heifers. The average conception rates (CR) of BVDV (Ag-/Ab+) heifers and BVDV (Ag-/Ab-) heifers were not significant statistically. There were statistically important differences in average FIT between persistent infected (PI) BVDV (Ag+/Ab-) heifers (p<0.0001; PI pregnant p<0.05, PI nonpregnant p<0.0001) and BVDV (Ag-/Ab-) heifers. No significant differences in average CR between PI BVDV (Ag+/Ab-) heifers and BVDV (Ag-/Ab-) heifers were found. The differences in average FIT between BVDV (Ag+/Ab+; p<0.0001; nonpregnant p<0.0001) and BVDV (Ag-/Ab-) heifers were important statistically. Although there were no BVDV (Ag+/Ab+) pregnant heifers, the differences in average CR between BVDV (Ag+/Ab+) pregnant heifers and BVDV (Ag-/Ab-) heifers were found to be statistically important (p<0.0001). We conclude that fertility is affected in heifers with BVDV (Ag-/Ab+, Ag+/Ab- and Ag+/Ab+).


pmid: 23877647
title: The diversity of BVDV subgenotypes in a vaccinated dairy cattle herd in Brazil
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is an important pathogen of cattle that occurs worldwide with substantial economic impact on beef and dairy industries. The aim of this study was to describe the diversity of BVDV subgenotypes in persistently infected (PI) animals identified in a highly productive, regularly vaccinated, dairy cattle herd presenting with reproductive failure. Serum samples were collected from all animals within the herd (n = 692) and used to detect the presence of BVDV RNA. Using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay, 29 cows were identified as transiently infected, three animals (two cows and one calf) as persistently infected, and one calf as putative BVDV PI animal. The sequences of 5'UTR and/or N(pro) gene of BVDV used in phylogenetic analyses revealed that the three PI animals were infected by three different BVDV subgenotypes (BVDV-1a, BVDV-1b, and BVDV-1d). These results demonstrated that in an open dairy cattle herd, regular vaccination against BVDV by itself is not able to prevent viral circulation in the herd. Furthermore, depending on the frequency of the acquisition of heifers and/or cows for replacement, several BVDV subgenotypes may co-exist simultaneously in the same herd.


pmid: 19501923
title: First report of BVDV circulation in sheep in Argentina
abstract: Pestiviruses are capable of infecting a wide range of animals within the order Artyodactila. Currently, the genus Pestivirus includes Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus 1 (BVDV-1) and 2 (BVDV-2), Border Disease Virus (BDV), and Classical Swine Fever Virus (CSFV). BVDV-1, BVDV-2 and BDV are able to cross species barrier to infect a wide range of hosts, whereas CSFV is restricted to domestic pigs and wild boars. In Argentina, 70% of cattle are seropositive to BVDV. Although there were some serological studies in llamas, alpacas and buffaloes, no reports existed about the circulation of BVDV in sheep in Argentina. Based on these, 54 blood samples of healthy ovines were analysed by serology. The results showed that 46.3% of the analysed sheep were seropositive to BVDV-1, 13% to BVDV-2 and 20.4% for both BVDV-1 and BVDV-2. The molecular analysis confirmed the presence of BVDV-1a in some samples.


pmid: 25349062
title: Increased genetic diversity of BVDV-1: recent findings and implications thereof
abstract: Sequence-based genotyping was recently used to distinguish between the BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 species of the bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). Quite recently, a new putative species, BVDV-3, was also detected. The phylogenetic analysis of the 5'-untranslated region (UTR) and Npro region has revealed at least 17 distinct subtypes for BVDV-1 to date. The aim of this study was to further investigate the genetic heterogeneity of BVDV-1 in Italy, by analysing 173 virus sequences from isolates collected over an 18-year period (1997-2014). Viral RNA was extracted from the original biological samples identified as BVDV-1-positive. Reverse transcription (RT) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays targeting a 288-base pair (bp) region of the 5'-UTR and a 428-bp region encoding the autoprotease Npro were performed, and the RT-PCR products were sequenced. The phylogenetic analysis of the 5'-UTR and Npro sequences re-confirmed the circulation of ten out of eleven subtypes previously discovered in Italy. Interestingly, four isolates differed significantly from all of the bovine pestiviruses identified so far, thereby providing evidence for the circulation of three novel subtypes that have not been documented so far. The growing number of reports on BVDV-1 heterogeneity, including the recent findings reported herein, raises concern related to the emergence and spread of new BVDV variants, with possible implications for animal health and disease control. This global issue needs to be addressed with the highest priority.


pmid: 25487441
title: Serological relationships among subgroups in bovine viral diarrhea virus genotype 1 (BVDV-1)
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has various economic impacts associated with diarrhea, poor performance, an increase in the frequency of other infections and lethal outcomes. Both genotypes, namely BVDV-1 and BVDV-2, as well as different subgroups within these genotypes have been reported worldwide. Understanding the serological differences among the BVDV subgroups is important for disease epidemiology and prevention as well as vaccination programs. The aim of this study was to determine the serological relatedness among the subgroups in BVDV-1. For that purpose, sheep hyperimmune sera were collected against representative strains from 6 of the subgroups of BVDV-1 (BVDV-1a, -1b, -1d, -1f, -1h and -1l). The serum samples that gave the peak antibody titer to the homologous strains were used to perform cross neutralization assays. The highest homologous antibody titer (1:5160) was obtained against BVDV-1h. Regarding the cross neutralizing (heterologous) antibodies, the lowest titer (1:20) was produced by the BVDV-1f antiserum against the BVDV-1a and BVDV1-b viruses. The highest cross neutralizing titer (1:2580) achieved by the BVDV-1h antiserum was against the BVDV-1b strain. The cross neutralization results indicated particular serological differences between the recently described subgroup (BVDV-1l) and BVDV-1a/-1b, which are widely used in commercial vaccines. Considering the cross neutralization titers, it is concluded that selected BVDV-1l and BVDV-1h strains can be used for the development of diagnostic and control tools.


pmid: 22748235
title: Predicted costs and benefits of eradicating BVDV from Ireland
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) causes an economically important endemic disease (BVD) of cattle in Ireland and worldwide. Systematic eradication by detection and removal of infectious (BVDV carrier) cattle has been successful in several regions. We therefore assessed the benefits (disease losses avoided) and costs (testing and culling regime) of a potential eradication programme in Ireland. Published bio-economic models of BVDV spread in beef suckler herds and dairy herds were adapted to estimate potential benefits of eradication in Ireland. A simple model of BVDV spread in beef finisher herds was devised to estimate the benefits of eradication in this sector. A six year eradication programme consisting of 5 inter-related virological and serological testing programmes is outlined and costed. We found that the annualised benefits of BVDV eradication in Ireland exceeded the costs by a factor of 5 in the beef suckler sector and a factor of 14 in the dairy sector. Corresponding payback periods were 1.2 and 0.5 years respectively. These results highlight the significant economic impact of BVDV on the Irish cattle industry and suggest a clear economic benefit to eradication using the proposed approach. This type of cost-benefit analysis is considered an essential prerequisite prior to undertaking an eradication campaign of this magnitude.


pmid: 26304025
title: Immunopathologic Changes in the Thymus of Calves Pre-infected with BVDV and Challenged with BHV-1
abstract: The aim of this work was to investigate the effect of pre-infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) on thymus immune cells from calves challenged with bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1). Twelve Friesian calves, aged 8 to 9 months, were inoculated with non-cytopathic BVDV-1. Ten of them were subsequently challenged with BHV-1 and euthanized in batches of two at 1, 2, 4, 7 or 14 dpi with BHV-1. The other two calves were euthanized prior to the second inoculation and were used as BVDV-infected controls. A further 10 calves were inoculated solely with BHV-1 and euthanized at the same time points. Two calves were not inoculated with any agent and were used as negative controls. Quantitative changes in immune cells were evaluated with immunohistochemical methods to compare coinfected calves and calves challenged only with BHV-1. The results of this study pointed out BVDV as responsible for the thymic lesions observed in the experiment as well as for the majority of immunopathologic changes, including a downregulation of Foxp3 lymphocytes and TGFβ, which reverted as BVDV was cleared, and an overexpression of medullary CD8+ T cells. However, despite not inducing evident lesions in the thymus, BHV-1 seemed to prompt some immune alterations. Collectively, these data contribute to the knowledge on the immunopathologic alterations of the thymus during BVDV infections, and its importance in the development of secondary infections.


pmid: 34710497
title: Use of multivariate analysis to evaluate antigenic relationships between US BVDV vaccine strains and non-US genetically divergent isolates
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) comprises two species, BVDV-1 and BVDV-2. But given the genetic diversity among pestiviruses, at least 22 subgenotypes are described for BVDV-1 and 3-4 for BVDV-2. Genetic characterization is generally accomplished through complete or partial sequencing and phylogeny, but it is not a reliable method to define antigenic relationships. The traditional method for evaluating antigenic relationships between pestivirus isolates is the virus neutralization (VN) assay, but interpretation of the data to define antigenic relatedness can be difficult to discern for BVDV isolates within the same BVDV species. Data from this study utilized a multivariate analysis for visualization of VN results to analyze the antigenic relationships between US vaccine strains and field isolates from Switzerland, Italy, Brazil, and the UK. Polyclonal sera were generated against six BVDV strains currently contained in vaccine formulations, and each serum was used in VNs to measure the titers against seven vaccine strains (including the six homologous strains) and 23 BVDV field isolates. Principal component analysis (PCA) was performed using VN titers, and results were interpreted from PCA clustering within the PCA dendrogram and scatter plot. The results demonstrated clustering patterns among various isolates suggesting antigenic relatedness. As expected, the BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 isolates did not cluster together and had the greatest spatial distribution. Notably, a number of clusters representing antigenically related BVDV-1 subgroups contain isolates of different subgenotypes. The multivariate analysis may be a method to better characterize antigenic relationships among BVDV isolates that belong to the same BVDV species and do not have distinct antigenic differences. This might be an invaluable tool to ameliorate the composition of current vaccines, which might well be important for the success of any BVDV control program that includes vaccination in its scheme.


pmid: 34710497
title: Use of multivariate analysis to evaluate antigenic relationships between US BVDV vaccine strains and non-US genetically divergent isolates
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) comprises two species, BVDV-1 and BVDV-2. But given the genetic diversity among pestiviruses, at least 22 subgenotypes are described for BVDV-1 and 3-4 for BVDV-2. Genetic characterization is generally accomplished through complete or partial sequencing and phylogeny, but it is not a reliable method to define antigenic relationships. The traditional method for evaluating antigenic relationships between pestivirus isolates is the virus neutralization (VN) assay, but interpretation of the data to define antigenic relatedness can be difficult to discern for BVDV isolates within the same BVDV species. Data from this study utilized a multivariate analysis for visualization of VN results to analyze the antigenic relationships between US vaccine strains and field isolates from Switzerland, Italy, Brazil, and the UK. Polyclonal sera were generated against six BVDV strains currently contained in vaccine formulations, and each serum was used in VNs to measure the titers against seven vaccine strains (including the six homologous strains) and 23 BVDV field isolates. Principal component analysis (PCA) was performed using VN titers, and results were interpreted from PCA clustering within the PCA dendrogram and scatter plot. The results demonstrated clustering patterns among various isolates suggesting antigenic relatedness. As expected, the BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 isolates did not cluster together and had the greatest spatial distribution. Notably, a number of clusters representing antigenically related BVDV-1 subgroups contain isolates of different subgenotypes. The multivariate analysis may be a method to better characterize antigenic relationships among BVDV isolates that belong to the same BVDV species and do not have distinct antigenic differences. This might be an invaluable tool to ameliorate the composition of current vaccines, which might well be important for the success of any BVDV control program that includes vaccination in its scheme.


pmid: 29855764
title: Seroprevalence and factors associated with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in dairy cattle in three milksheds in Ethiopia
abstract: This work was conducted to estimate the seroprevalence, to identify potential factors that influence seroprevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and to investigate the association between BVDV serostatus and occurrence of reproductive disorders in dairy cattle in three milksheds in Ethiopia. A total of 1379 serum samples were obtained from cattle randomly selected from 149 herds from three milksheds representing central, southern, and western Ethiopia. Sera samples were examined for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) antibodies using commercial competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kit. Logistic regression analysis was employed to investigate associations between risk factors and the risk of BVDV seroprevalence, and BVDV serostatus and reproductive disorders. Seroreaction to BVDV antigens was detected in 32.6% of the 1379 cattle and 69.8% of the 149 herds sampled. Factors associated with BVDV seroplevalence were age, breed, and herd size (P < 0.05). Adult cattle ≥ 18 months old had 2.1 (95% CI 1.5, 3.1) times the odds of BVDV seroreaction than younger cattle. Holstein-Friesian (HF) local crosses (OR = 2.1, 95% CI 1.3, 3.4) and HFs (OR = 1.3, 95% CI 0.9, 1.9) were more likely to be seropositive than Jersey and the odds of seropositivity in cattle in large herds with 11 or more animals were higher (OR = 1.8, 95% CI 1.3, 2.5) than the odds of BVDV seropositivity in smaller herds. Seroprevalence was not associated with geographical region (P > 0.05). Risk of reproductive disorders was not affected by BVDV serostatus, except for repeat breeding (P > 0.05). The present study demonstrated that BVDV has wide distribution in the country being detected in all the 15 conurbations and 69.8% of herds involved in the study.


pmid: 22740542
title: Impact of BVDV infection of white-tailed deer during second and third trimesters of pregnancy
abstract: While it has been demonstrated that persistent bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections can be established in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) following in utero exposure in the first trimester of gestation, there is little to no information regarding the outcome of infection in later stages of pregnancy in deer. Our goal was to observe the impact of infection of white-tailed deer in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy. Five white-tailed deer in the second trimester of pregnancy and four in the third trimester were infected with a BVDV type 2 virus previously isolated from a BVDV-infected deer harvested from the wild. Infection of deer in the second trimester of pregnancy resulted in loss of the pregnancy in three of five deer. Fawns born to the two remaining deer appeared normal and were born BVDV antigen-negative with neutralizing serum antibodies against BVDV. Infection of does in the third trimester of pregnancy did not result in fetal death or persistent infection and all does gave birth to live, healthy fawns that were BVDV antigen-negative and born with antibodies against BVDV. These results, combined with those previously reported regarding BVDV infection in the first trimester of pregnancy, suggest that the impact of BVDV infection of pregnant white-tailed deer is very similar to that observed in pregnant cattle.


pmid: 16169617
title: Genetic diversity of BVDV: consequences for classification and molecular epidemiology
abstract: Genetic typing of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is important for the precise classification of viruses as well as for the development of molecular epidemiology. BVDV isolates were usually typed based on comparison of genomic sequences from the 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR), N(pro) and E2 region. Recently we have identified 11 genetic groups (subgenotypes) of BVDV-1. Our further experiments confirmed a new subgenotype, BVDV-1k, isolated from cattle in Switzerland. BVDV isolates from India were typed as BVDV-1b whereas BVDV-1c is a predominant subgenotype in Australia. The results of genetic typing of BVDV indicate that distribution of subgenotypes has no relationship to the geographic origin of viral isolates.


pmid: 28532992
title: Assessment of concurrent infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and Mycobacterium bovis: A herd-level risk factor analysis from Northern Ireland
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is a significant pathogen of cattle, leading to severe economic and animal-welfare impacts. Furthermore, the pathogen has been associated with impacting the progression or spread of other pathogens (e.g. Mycobacterium bovis, the causative agent of bovine tuberculosis (bTB)). During this study we investigated (i) risk factors for BVDV at a herd-level and (ii) whether there was any association between BVDV and herd-level bTB risk. The data for this study were gathered from a voluntary BVDV control programme in Northern Ireland (2013-2015) based on the identification of virus positive animals through tissue tag testing of calves. We assigned a herd-level BVDV status to 2827 participating herds, where a herd was assumed "infected" if one or more animals tested positive for BVDV. Two model suites were developed. Firstly, we assessed risk factors for BVDV herd status using multivariable logit random-effects modelling, aggregating to the calendar year level (2013-2015; n=4828; model 1). Secondly, we aggregated data across the three years of the study to give an overall status for the whole study period (n=2827; logistic model 2). Risk factors included year, herd-type, herd size, number of births, inward trade moves, calf mortality, and region. Furthermore, the herd-level bovine tuberculosis status (based on the single intradermal comparative cervical tuberculin (SICCT) test outcomes, or confirmation at post-mortem), or the size of bTB breakdowns (number of SICCT test positive animals), of herds was also investigated to assess whether there was an association (co-infection) with herd BVDV status. The final models suggested that BVDV herd status was positively associated with increased levels of calf mortality, herd size, number of births, the number of BVDV tests undertaken and the number of animals introduced to the herd. There was a significant univariable positive association between BVDV status, and SICCT breakdown risk, breakdown size and confirmed bTB status in model 2. However, there was no evidence of significant associations between bTB status (using SICTT status, confirmed status or herd breakdown size) and BVDV status in final multivariable models when controlling for other significant confounders. These results provide information for action for the future control and eradication of BVDV in Northern Ireland, though these data provide little support for the hypothesised association between BVDV and bTB status at herd-level. Further animal-level analyses are necessary to investigate whether there is support for a BVD-bTB co-infection association, including the impact of co-infection on the severity of infection.


pmid: 28582444
title: Selection and characterization of specific nanobody against bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV) E2 protein
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea-mucosal disease (BVD-MD) is caused by bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and results in abortion, stillbirth, and fetal malformation in cows. Here, we constructed the phage display vector pCANTAB 5E-VHH and then transformed it into Escherichia coli TG1-competent cells, to construct an initial anti-BVDV nanobody gene library. We obtained a BVDV-E2 antigen epitope bait protein by prokaryotic expression using the nucleotide sequence of the E2 gene of the BVDV-NADL strain published in GenBank. Phage display was used to screen the anti-BVDV nanobody gene library. We successfully constructed a high quality phage display nanobody library, with an initial library capacity of 4.32×105. After the rescue of helper phage, the titer of the phage display nanobody library was 1.3×1011. The BVDV-E2 protein was then expressed in Escherichia coli (DE3), and a 49.5 kDa band was observed with SDS-PAGE analysis that was consistent with the expected nanobody size. Thus, we were able to isolate one nanobody that exhibits high affinity and specificity against BVDV using phage display techniques. This isolated nanobody was then used in Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay and qRT-PCR, and ELISA analyses of BVDV infection of MDBK cells indicated that the nanobodies exhibited good antiviral effect.


pmid: 10195622
title: Cross-protective efficacy of a bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type 1 vaccine against BVDV type 2 challenge
abstract: A new genotype of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), designated BVDV type 2 (BVDV 2), has become prevalent in the field. BVDV 2 strains are antigenically distinct from currently available vaccine strains of the BVDV 1 genotype, raising concerns about cross-protection of these vaccines against BVDV 2 challenge. To determine cross-protective efficacy of a modified-live virus (MLV) vaccine containing BVDV 1 strain WRL (BVDV 1(WRL)), two studies were conducted in which the relative magnitude and duration of BVDV 1- and BVDV 2-specific serologic responses and protection against BVDV 2 challenge were determined. For the first study, 27 heifers were vaccinated (13 i.m. and 14 s.c.), while 13 heifers received negative control vaccine. Serum from the vaccinated heifers neutralized both BVDV 1 and BVDV 2 strains. The evolution and duration of BVDV 1 and BVDV 2 serologic responses were comparable, and antibody titers to BVDV 2 persisted through at least 105 days post-single vaccination. In a second, separate study, 17 calves were vaccinated (9 i.m. and 8 s.c.), and 11 calves were held as unvaccinated controls. Approximately seven months following vaccination, the calves were challenged intranasally with the 890 isolate of BVDV 2. Clinical signs of disease and fever were significantly reduced in vaccinates in comparison with controls. Vaccination eliminated nasal virus shedding in 87% of cattle and completely prevented viremia and leukopenia. These data indicate utility of BVDV 1(WRL) MLV vaccine in stimulation of long-term BVDV 2-specific serologic responses, protection against BVDV 2 challenge and reduction or elimination of virus shedding which can contribute to spread of BVDV 2 in herds.


pmid: 30389046
title: PD-1 blockade inhibits lymphocyte apoptosis and restores proliferation and anti-viral immune functions of lymphocyte after CP and NCP BVDV infection in vitro
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an important virus that can cause extensive economic losses in both dairy and beef industry worldwide. Acute infection with BVDV results in peripheral blood lymphopenia, apoptosis and immunosuppression. Up-regulated programmed death-1 (PD-1) expression induces functional exhaustion of lymphocytes, inhibition of proliferation and apoptosis of lymphocytes during acute and chronic viral infections, such as HIV and HCV. However, there are no reports showing the role of PD-1 in peripheral blood lymphopenia, apoptosis and immunosuppression after acute BVDV infection. Accordingly, we measured the mRNA and protein expression of PD-1 and programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) infected with BVDV, and analyzed the effects of PD-1 blockade on immune-associated function and activity in peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs). The results showed that both cytopathic (CP) BVDV (strain NADL) and non-cytopathic (NCP) BVDV (strain KD) infection stimulated the mRNA and protein expression of PD-1 and PD-L1 significantly. The upregulation of PD-1/PD-L1 was accompanied by the decreased PBLs proliferation and increased apoptosis. Additionally, PD-1 blockade restored proliferation, inhibited apoptosis, increased IFN-γ production and decreased BVDV load. Remarkably, the PD-1/PD-L1 interaction has a more substantial effect on the immunoregulation of inhibiting proliferation induced by CP BVDV infection. Our findings confirm that PD-1 plays a vital role in peripheral blood lymphopenia and apoptosis caused by acute BVDV infection, and provide new insights into exploring the immunopathological mechanisms of BVDV or other members of the Flaviviridae family, and a potential therapeutic strategy to control BVDV infection.


pmid: 21596076
title: Protection from persistent infection with a bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type 1b strain by a modified-live vaccine containing BVDV types 1a and 2, infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus, parainfluenza 3 virus and bovine respiratory syncytial virus
abstract: Recent studies showed that BVDV-1b subgenotype is dominant in North and South American field BVDV isolates. However, nearly all commercially available BVDV-1 vaccines contain BVDV-1a strains. In order to study the efficacy of BVDV-1a vaccine against BVDV-1b infection, this study was designed to evaluate a modified-live vaccine (MLV) containing BVDV-1a and BVDV-2 strains for its efficacy in prevention of persistent infection of fetuses against BVDV-1b strain, when the heifers were vaccinated prior to breeding. Heifers were vaccinated subcutaneously with a single dose of the MLV and bred four weeks after vaccination. The pregnant heifers were challenged with a non-cytopathic BVDV-1b strain at approximately 80 days of gestation. Vaccinated heifers were protected from clinical disease and viremia caused by the BVDV-1b virus. At approximately 155 days of gestation, the fetuses were harvested and tissue samples of thymus, lungs, spleen, kidney and intestines were collected for virus isolation. BVDV was isolated from 100% of the fetuses in the non-vaccinated control group, and from only one fetus (4.3%) from the vaccinated group. Results demonstrated that the MLV containing BVDV-1a and BVDV-2 strains provided 96% protection from fetal persistent infection caused by the BVDV-1b strain.


pmid: 12013443
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and anti-BVDV antibodies in pooled samples of follicular fluid
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) can be found in cells and fluids from ovaries collected at the abattoir. On the other hand, immunoglobulins are also found in the fluid of ovarian follicles. Anti-BVDV antibodies in follicular fluid might reduce cross-contamination of COCs at the time of collection or hinder the use of virus isolation to test for the presence of virus. One objective of this study was to determine the frequency with which BVDV could be found in pooled follicular fluid collected during the periodic aspiration of COCs from abattoir-origin ovaries. A second objective was to determine the prevalence and neutralizing activity of anti-BVDV antibodies in these blended samples. We collected samples of pooled follicular fluid (n = 55) over a 20-month period as part of our routine oocyte collection activities. We assayed each sample for BVDV using virus isolation as well as reverse transcription nested polymerase chain reaction (RT-nPCR) procedures. We also tested follicular fluid for antibody that would neutralize four representative strains of BVDV (SD-1, a genotype 1a strain; NY-1, a genotype lb strain; CD-87, a genotype 2 strain, and PA-131, a divergent genotype 2 strain). We detected no BVDV by virus isolation, but we did identify the virus by RT-nPCR in one of the 55 samples of follicular fluid. Automated dye terminator nucleotide sequencing of the amplified portion of the viral genome indicated a genotype 1 strain that was distinct from any of our laboratory strains. In addition, each of the samples of follicular fluid contained sufficient antibody to neutralize large quantities of each of the four laboratory strains that were used. Finding BVDV in just 1 of 55 samples was consistent with reports of similar studies in which the occurrence of BVDV in abattoir-origin materials ranged from 0.9 to 12%. We presumed that failure to isolate the virus was due to neutralizing antibody in the sample. Thus, the incidence of BVDV contamination of our IVF system at the level of pooling of follicular fluid was low for the 20-month period. The presence of anti-BVDV antibody in pooled follicular fluid provided a coincidental means of neutralizing BVDV when it was introduced in fluid aspirated from infected ovaries.


pmid: 12784561
title: [Vaccines against infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus/mucosal disease (BVDV/MD): a short overview]
abstract: Various vaccine preparations against an infection with Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) have been used since more than 30 years. To prevent reproduction failure and the generation of persistently infected animals, protection of heifers and cows against transplacental infection is the most important aim of BVDV vaccination. In principal, BVD vaccines with replication competent, attenuated BVDV (modified live vaccines) and vaccines with inactivated BVDV preparations (killed vaccines) are used. In Germany, modified live vaccines as well as killed vaccines are registered, however, only BVDV type I strains are included in both types of vaccines. This paper presents an short overview about the different BVD vaccines and their efficacy and safety. In addition, new vaccine types are mentioned and final conclusions are drawn.


pmid: 23345268
title: HoBi-like viruses: an emerging group of pestiviruses
abstract: The genus Pestivirus is composed of 4 important pathogens of livestock: Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 and 2 (BVDV-1 and BVDV-2), Classical swine fever virus (CSFV), and Border disease virus of sheep (BDV). BVDV are major pathogens of cattle, and infection results in significant economic loss worldwide. A new putative pestivirus species, tentatively called "HoBi-like," "BVDV-3," or "atypical pestiviruses," was first identified in Europe in fetal bovine serum (FBS) imported from Brazil. HoBi-like viruses are related to BVDV at the genetic and antigenic levels. Further, the disease caused by these new viruses resembles clinical presentations historically associated with BVDV infection, including growth retardation, reduced milk production, respiratory disease, reduced reproductive performance, and increased mortality among young stock. Current BVDV diagnostic tests may fail to detect HoBi-like viruses or to differentiate between BVDV and HoBi-like viruses. Further, commercial tests for BVDV exposure, based on serological response, do not reliably detect HoBi-like virus exposure, and cross protection against HoBi-like viruses conferred by current BVDV vaccines is likely limited. As many HoBi-like viruses, characterized to date, were isolated from FBS originating from Brazil, it is assumed that the agent is probably widespread in Brazilian herds. Nevertheless, reports of natural infection in Southeast Asia and Europe demonstrate that these viruses are not restricted to South America. Increased demand for FBS has led to widespread distribution of FBS originating in HoBi-like virus endemic regions. The contamination of such FBS with HoBi-like viruses may lead to spread of this virus to other regions.


pmid: 29134541
title: Bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), bovine leukemia virus (BLV) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections in Algerian dromedary camels (Camelus dromaderius)
abstract: This study was performed to investigate the presence of bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), bovine leukemia virus (BLV) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections in dromedary camels (Camelus dromaderius) kept in mixed herds with sheep and goats in Algeria, since the prevalence of BHV-1, BVDV, and BLV infections among dromedary camels in Algeria is unknown. Totally, 111 camel sera were collected from two provinces (Laghouat and Ghardaia) in Algeria. The sera were analyzed for BHV-1 specific antibodies, BVDV specific antibodies and BVDV antigen using the ELISA, and BLV nucleic acid using PCR. The seropositivity rate was 9.0% for BVDV-specific antibody, although 41.4% of camels tested were positive for BVDV antigen. Moreover, there was no evidence of BHV-1 and BLV infections. The results indicated that camels might represent an important source for BVDV infection in all ruminants, including cattle, sheep, and goats bred in mixed herds in Algeria, since they had a higher BVDV prevalence rates. Therefore, the prevention and control measures for BVDV infection should put in place in camel populations to limit the spread of BVDV infection to ruminant populations in Algeria.


pmid: 22878124
title: Serological and virological BVDV prevalence and risk factor analysis for herds to be BVDV seropositive in Belgian cattle herds
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is a worldwide spread virus that most commonly infects cattle and can cause considerable economic losses. To determine the prevalence of BVDV in Belgium, a cross-sectional study was performed between November 2009 and March 2010. Young stock aged between 6 and 12 months from 773 randomly selected Belgian cattle herds were tested for BVDV-specific antibodies and antigen. With a target and maximum of 10 animals per sampled herd, a total of 5246 animals were selected. Additionally a questionnaire including different herd management topics and questions about participation in animal health programmes, including BVDV, was sent to 1100 Belgian cattle herds, including the 773 herds for BVDV testing. This paper focuses on results regarding these 773 herds. The true prevalence of BVDV-specific antibodies and antigen at herd level was respectively 47.4% and 4.4%, while at animal level this was respectively 32.9% and 0.3%. In 44.4% of the herds where BVDV-specific antibodies were detected at least 60% of the sampled young stock was BVDV seropositive. Interestingly, 83.4% of these farmers stated not to have suffered from problems related to BVDV. Moreover, only 8.4% of all farmers who completed the questionnaire (n=895) reported problems possibly related to BVDV the past 3 years. This demonstrates that farmers are often unaware of the presence of BVDV in their herd. Risk factors for a herd to be BVDV seropositive were identified by means of a multivariable logistic regression model. Large herds were significantly more likely to be BVDV seropositive (OR=1.004, p<0.01). The interaction between "Antigen positive animal detected in this study" and "BVDV vaccination in 2009" was significant (p<0.01). In non-vaccinating herds, the detection of antigen positive animals was significantly associated with BVDV seropositive herds (OR=13.8, p<0.01). In herds with no antigen positive animals detected, vaccination resulted in a significant risk factor to be BVDV seropositive compared to non-vaccinating herds (OR=3.4, p<0.01). Herds reporting BVDV-related problems the past 3 years were more likely to be BVDV seropositive (OR=1.9, p<0.05). This relation became non-significant (OR=1.8, p=0.08) when only a subset of herds with no vaccination of animals <12 months was taken into account. The results of the current study suggest an active circulation of BVDV in a considerable number of Belgian cattle herds.


pmid: 30683172
title: A genetic profile of bovine pestiviruses circulating in Brazil (1998-2018)
abstract: The pestiviruses bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1), 2 (BVDV-2), and HoBi-like (HoBiPeV) are endemic among Brazilian cattle, the world's largest commercial bovine herd. In the last two decades (1998-2018) over 300 bovine pestiviruses have been partially or fully sequenced in Brazil, including viruses from different regions, different epidemiological backgrounds, and associated with diverse clinical presentations. Phylogenetic analysis of these viruses demonstrated a predominance of BVDV-1 (54.4%), with subgenotypes -1a (33.9% of total) and -1b (16.3%) being more frequent and subgenotypes -1d, -1e, and -1i at very low frequencies. The overall BVDV-2 frequency was 25.7% but it varied largely by region, reaching up to 48% in Southern states. BVDV-2b was the predominant subgenotype (84.8% of BVDV-2), followed by BVDV-2a (8.86%). HoBiPeV accounted for 19.9% (61/307) of the genotyped viruses and were detected at high frequency in cattle from Northeastern states. These findings demonstrate a unique mix of pestivirus species and subgenotypes, unlike that seen in Europe or North America. The design of effective diagnostic tools, vaccines, and control programs for limiting bovine pestivirus infections in Brazil must take into consideration this unique mix of viruses. This article provides a critical review of two decades of genetic identification of pestiviruses in Brazil.


pmid: 24957715
title: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells from field cattle immune to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) are permissive in vitro to BVDV
abstract: The aim of this study was to determine the in vitro permissivity of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)-immune field cattle to homologous and heterologous BVDVs. PBMCs from seventeen BVDV-naïve and sixteen BVDV-immune animals were infected with noncytopathic BVDV-1 or BVDV-2. The immune status of cattle was indicated by the presence of virus neutralizing antibodies, while viral load of PBMCs was determined by real-time RT-PCR. The results revealed that the PBMCs from naïve or immune animals were permissive to either BVDV-1 or BVDV-2, but the viral load was significantly higher for the naïve than for the immune animals. Furthermore, the load of homologous virus in PBMCs from immune animals was lower than that of heterologous virus. Our results provide evidence that the PBMCs from BVDV-immune cattle in field are susceptible to reinfection with homologous or heterologous BVDV, albeit to a lower extent in the former case.


pmid: 22871332
title: Clinical and reproductive consequences of using BVDV-contaminated semen in artificial insemination in a beef herd in Argentina
abstract: The current report was prompted by an atypical outbreak of mucosal disease that occurred in a beef herd in the southwestern part of Buenos Aires Province, Argentina, where a total of 9/41 (21.9%) yearling bulls died. Blood samples from 73 bulls and 189 heifers were tested for evidence of persistent BVDV infection with Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV). Non-cytopathic BVDV was isolated from 7 (9.6%) 24- to 36-month-old bulls, and 3 (1.6%) 36-month-old heifers. Non-cytopathic BVDV was also detected in the seminal plasma of three of six persistently infected (PI) bulls. Furthermore, a 171 bp genomic fragment of BVDV was consistently detected by nested RT-PCR in one of the two samples of the commercial semen used for artificial insemination, indicating that this semen could be a possible source of infection for the whole herd. To evaluate the possible reproductive consequences of PI heifers and bulls, ovaries and semen were obtained from PI cattle for in vitro assays. The in vitro fertilization of oocytes with semen from PI bulls was associated with decreased cleavage and embryo development rates. Additionally, non-cytopathic BVDV was isolated from the follicular fluid of PI heifers. Genetic typing revealed that all isolates BVDV from the present study had a high percentage of homology and that all of the fragments from the RT-PCR clearly fit with the BVDV 1b cluster. These findings confirm the negative impact that BVDV can have on the reproductive performance of cattle and the importance of applying the proper sanitary controls to minimize the risk of BVDV infection.


pmid: 19455512
title: Classification of new BVDV isolates from Philippine water buffalo using the viral E2 region
abstract: Characterization of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolates has been focused of several studies this last decade. Until now lots of new strains are being unfolded maybe due to the viral fast mutation ability. As we focused our research on water buffalo immunology, we were able to identify a probable new BVDV isolates. RNA was extracted from water buffalo blood in the Philippines. The extracted RNA was reverse-transcribed and synthesized cDNA. Oligonucleotide primers from the viral E2 region were used to amplify the target viral gene and later purified, cloned and sequenced. The E2 region with 420 bp nucleotides long was compared with existing published sequences in the GenBank. Based on the constructed phylogenetic tree, the isolated strain showed to be a BVDV type 1b along with Osloss and CP7 strains. Further classification of the new isolates was done within the BVDV type 1b1 group, which was compared with other strains in the sub-group. The analysis revealed that Lamspringe/738, KE9 and 2543/87 were the closest with 92% homology. Additional study is being done to further qualify and quantify the extent of the existence of this new BVDV isolates in water buffalo in the Philippines. This is the first report of BVDV in the Philippines and first concerning BVDV in Philippine water buffalo.


pmid: 35371109
title: Integrative Transcriptomics and Proteomics Analysis Provide a Deep Insight Into Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus-Host Interactions During BVDV Infection
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is the causative agent of bovine viral diarrhea-mucosal disease (BVD-MD), an important viral disease in cattle that is responsible for extensive economic losses to the cattle industry worldwide. Currently, several underlying mechanisms involved in viral replication, pathogenesis, and evading host innate immunity of BVDV remain to be elucidated, particularly during the early stage of virus infection. To further explore the mechanisms of BVDV-host interactions, the transcriptomics and proteomics profiles of BVDV-infected MDBK cells were sequenced using RNA-seq and iTRAQ techniques, respectively, and followed by an integrative analysis. Compared with mock-infected MDBK cells, a total of 665 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) (391 down-regulated, 274 up-regulated) and 725 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) (461 down-regulated, 264 up-regulated) were identified. Among these, several DEGs and DEPs were further verified using quantitative RT-PCR and western blot. Following gene ontology (GO) annotation and KEGG enrichment analysis, we determined that these DEGs and DEPs were significantly enriched in multiple important cellular signaling pathways including NOD-like receptor, Toll-like receptor, TNF, NF-κB, MAPK, cAMP, lysosome, protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum, lipid metabolism, and apoptosis signaling pathways. Significantly, the down-regulated DEGs and DEPs were predominantly associated with apoptosis-regulated elements, inflammatory factors, and antiviral elements that were involved in innate immunity, thus, indicating that BVDV could inhibit apoptosis and the expression of host antiviral genes to facilitate viral replication. Meanwhile, up-regulated DEGs and DEPs were primarily involved in metabolism and autophagy signaling pathways, indicating that BVDV could utilize the host metabolic resources and cell autophagy to promote replication. However, the potential mechanisms BVDV-host interactions required further experimental validation. Our data provide an overview of changes in transcriptomics and proteomics profiles of BVDV-infected MDBK cells, thus, providing an important basis for further exploring the mechanisms of BVDV-host interactions.


pmid: 34970621
title: Modeling the Effect of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus in Australian Beef Herds
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an economically important disease in Australian beef farming. The disease typically results in low-level production losses that can be difficult to detect for several years. Simulation modeling can be used to support the decision to control BVDV; however, current BVDV simulation models do not adequately reflect the extensive farming environment of Australian beef production. Therefore, the objective of this study was to develop a disease simulation model to explore the impact of BVDV on beef cattle production in south-east Australia. A dynamic, individual-based, stochastic, discrete-time simulation model was created to simulate within-herd transmission of BVDV in a seasonal, self-replacing beef herd. We used the model to simulate the effect of herd size and BVDV introduction time on disease transmission and assessed the short- and long-term impact of BVDV on production outputs that influence the economic performance of beef farms. We found that BVDV can become established in a herd after a single PI introduction in 60% of cases, most frequently associated with the breeding period. The initial impact of BVDV will be more severe in smaller herds, although self-elimination is more likely in small herds than in larger herds, in which there is a 23% chance that the virus can persist for >15 years following a single incursion in a herd with 800 breeders. The number and weight of steers sold was reduced in the presence of BVDV and the results demonstrated that repeat incursions exacerbate long-term production losses, even when annual losses appear marginal. This model reflects the short- and long-term production losses attributed to BVDV in beef herds in southeast Australia and provides a foundation from which the influence and economic utility of BVDV prevention in Australian beef herds can be assessed.


pmid: 34055953
title: Recent Advances on the Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Molecular Pathogenesis, Immune Response, and Vaccines Development
abstract: The bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) consists of two species and various subspecies of closely related viruses of varying antigenicity, cytopathology, and virulence-induced pathogenesis. Despite the great ongoing efforts to control and prevent BVDV outbreaks and the emergence of new variants, outbreaks still reported throughout the world. In this review, we are focusing on the molecular biology of BVDV, its molecular pathogenesis, and the immune response of the host against the viral infection. Special attention was paid to discuss some immune evasion strategies adopted by the BVDV to hijack the host immune system to ensure the success of virus replication. Vaccination is one of the main strategies for prophylaxis and contributes to the control and eradication of many viral diseases including BVDV. We discussed the recent advances of various types of currently available classical and modern BVDV vaccines. However, with the emergence of new strains and variants of the virus, it is urgent to find some other novel targets for BVDV vaccines that may overcome the drawbacks of some of the currently used vaccines. Effective vaccination strategy mainly based on the preparation of vaccines from the homologous circulating strains. The BVDV-E2 protein plays important role in viral infection and pathogenesis. We mapped some important potential neutralizing epitopes among some BVDV genomes especially the E2 protein. These novel epitopes could be promising targets against the currently circulating strains of BVDV. More research is needed to further explore the actual roles of these epitopes as novel targets for the development of novel vaccines against BVDV. These potential vaccines may contribute to the global eradication campaign of the BVDV.


pmid: 16384618
title: Lymphocytopathogenic activity in vitro correlates with high virulence in vivo for BVDV type 2 strains: Criteria for a third biotype of BVDV
abstract: Two biotypes of bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV), cytopathic (cp) and noncytopathic (ncp), are recognized based on their activity in cultured epithelial cells. Biotype does not correlate to virulence in acute infections as BVDV strains associated with severe acute BVD outbreaks are all noncytopathic based on their growth characteristics in cultured epithelial cells. Previous studies have shown that acute infections with highly virulent BVDV result in depletion of cells in lymphoid tissues. In this study, flow cytometry demonstrated that infection with a highly virulent BVDV strain was associated with a pronounced reduction in circulating white blood cells (WBC) and increased numbers of apoptotic and necrotic circulating WBC in vivo. Infection with low virulence BVDV did not result in a significant increase in death of circulating WBC. Thus, there appeared to be a correlation between depletion of circulating WBC and virulence. To study the interaction of BVDV strains with lymphoid cells in the laboratory, we developed an in vitro model that used a bovine lymphoid cell line (BL-3 cells). Using this model, it was found that while BVDV strains are segregated into two biotypes based on their activity in cultured epithelial cells, they may be segregated into three biotypes based on their activity in cultured lymphoid cells. These three biotypes are noncytopathogenic (no obvious effects on the viability of either cultured epithelial or lymphoid cells), cytopathogenic (cytopathic effect and cell death in both cultured epithelial and lymphoid cells within 48 h of infection) and lymphocytopathogenic (no effect on cultured epithelial cells, however, cell death in cultured lymphoid cells is observed within 5 days of infection). The proposed lymphocytopathic biotype correlates with high virulence in acute infections in vivo. Cell death caused by the lymphocytopathogenic biotype was not associated with changes typically seen with cytopathic viruses grown in cultured epithelial cells (e.g. changes in processing of the NS2/3 protein observed within 24h post infection, crenation and breakdown of cell integrity within the first 48 h post infection). These data suggest that the cytopathic effect induced in cultured lymphoid cells by a ncp highly virulent BVDV strain may occur by a different mechanism than the cytopathic effect induced by cp BVDV strains.


pmid: 9210948
title: Determination of level of antibodies to bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in bulk tank milk as a tool in the diagnosis and prophylaxis of BVDV infections in dairy herds
abstract: An indirect ELISA has been evaluated for determination of the level of antibodies to BVDV in individual milk samples and recently in bulk tank milk from dairy herds. As part of an epidemiological study, bulk milk and individual milk samples from all cows in 15 dairy herds were analysed for antibodies to BVDV two times one year apart. There was an excellent correlation between the level of antibodies in the bulk tank milk and the prevalence of BVDV antibody positive cows. The mean prevalence of BVDV antibody positive cows in the 15 dairy herds was 45.5% (188/413) at the first sampling and 46.2% (191/413) one year later. Seven of the herds had no, or only a low number of antibody positive cows. In contrast, between 52 to 100% of the cows in seven other herds were antibody positive to BVDV. In the 15th herd all cows without antibodies at the first sampling were antibody positive to BVDV one year later, indicating a recently introduced BVDV infection in this herd. Analysis of bulk milk samples for BVDV antibodies is now routinely used in Sweden as a tool in diagnosis and prophylaxis of BVDV infections in dairy herds. The importance and advantages of this diagnostic technique, that has made it possible to establish BVDV-free dairy herds, is discussed.


pmid: 33309379
title: The effect of bovine viral diarrhea virus introduction on milk production of Dutch dairy herds
abstract: Dairy cows are negatively affected by the introduction of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and consequently, produce less milk. Existing literature on potential milk production losses is based on relatively outdated data and hardly evaluates milk production loss in relation to a new BVDV infection in a surveillance system. This study determined the annual and quarterly loss in milk production of BVDV introduction in 3,126 dairy herds participating in the Dutch BVDV-free program between 2007 and 2017. Among these herds, 640 were "breakdown-herds" that obtained and subsequently lost their BVDV-free status during the study period, and 2,486 herds obtained and retained their BVDV-free status during the study period. Milk yields before and after BVDV introduction were compared through annual and quarterly linear mixed models. The fixed variables for both models included herd type (breakdown-herd or free-herd), bovine viral diarrhea status (on an annual and quarterly basis), year, season, and a random herd effect. The dependent variable was the average daily milk yield on the test day. To define the possible BVDV-introduction dates, 4 scenarios were developed. In the default scenario, the date of breakdown (i.e., loss of the BVDV-free status) was assumed as the BVDV-introduction date. For the other 3 scenarios, the BVDV-introduction dates were set at 4, 6, and 9 mo before the date of breakdown, based on the estimated birth date of a persistently infected calf. In the default scenario, the loss in milk yield due to BVDV introduction occurred mainly in the first year after breakdown, with a reduction in yield of 0.08 kg/cow per day compared with the last year before breakdown. For the other 3 scenarios, the greatest yield reduction occurred in the second year after BVDV introduction, with a loss of 0.09, 0.09, and 0.1 kg/cow per day, respectively. For the first 4 quarters after BVDV introduction in the default scenario, milk yield loss was 0.14, 0.09, 0.02, and 0.08 kg/cow per day, respectively. These quarterly results indicated that milk yield loss was greatest in the first quarter after BVDV introduction. Overall, BVDV introduction had a negative, but on average a relatively small, effect on milk yield for herds participating in the BVDV-free program. This study will enable dairy farmers and policymakers to have a clearer understanding of the quantitative milk production effect of BVDV on dairy farms in a control program.


pmid: 18395998
title: Genetic heterogeneity of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) isolates from Turkey: identification of a new subgroup in BVDV-1
abstract: Genetic heterogeneity of Turkish ruminant pestiviruses was investigated by phylogenetic analysis of complete N(pro) encoding nucleotide sequences. A total of 30 virus isolates obtained from 15 provinces around the country between 1997 and 2005 were included in the phylogenetic analysis. Virus isolates mostly originated from cattle with one isolate from sheep. The bovine isolates all belonged to BVDV-1, the sheep isolate to BVDV-2. Fifteen isolates formed a new subgroup within BVDV-1, tentatively named BVDV-1l. The remaining bovine isolates were typed as BVDV-1a (n=4), BVDV-1b (n=4), BVDV-1d (n=3), BVDV-1f (n=2) and BVDV-1h (n=1). The isolates allocated to BVDV-1l originated from various geographical regions in different years. There was no correlation between genetic grouping and locations where isolates were obtained. Viruses originating from one farm in most cases belonged to the same subgroup (n=5). This study indicates that the newly detected subgroup BVDV-1l is predominant and widespread in Turkey. Moreover, an ovine virus isolate was identified as the first member of BVDV-2 reported in Turkey. A serological survey using samples from western Turkey indicated that BVDV-2 is also present in cattle.


pmid: 11911592
title: Phylogenetic analysis of the 5'-untranslated region of german BVDV type II isolates
abstract: On the basis of genetic differences, bovine viral diarrhoea viruses (BVDV) are subclassified into two distinct genotypes, BVDV type I and BVDV type II. We selected German BVDV type II isolates using the BVDV type I-specific monoclonal antibody WB160 and flow cytometric analysis for further characterization. For molecular characterization, a 288-bp fragment of the 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) of the selected isolates was investigated by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and sequencing. Sequence comparisons of the partial 5'-UTR sequences and their phylogenetic analyses demonstrated that the 18 German BVDV type II isolates all belong to either subtype IIa (10 isolates) or subtype IIc (eight isolates). Nevertheless, the German BVDV type II isolates were genetically different (89.9-94.3% sequence identity) from the standard BVDV type II strain 890 from North America, which was recently classified as BVDV type IIa. Furthermore, a clear subdivision of the German BVDV type II isolates into two distinct subtypes (BVDV IIa Germany and BVDV IIc Germany) is shown. Viruses of both subgroups differed in the analysed 5'-UTR fragment from each other (91.6-95.2% sequence identity), but were highly conserved within the same German subtype (97.2-100% sequence identity). These findings are discussed in the context of BVDV type II origin, possible introduction into Germany, its epidemiology and impact for vaccine development.


pmid: 12770545
title: The persistence of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) has a unique capacity to cause persistent infections of foetuses exposed within the first 150 days of gestation. Preventing foetal BVDV infection will aid in improved control. This unique ability gives BVDV a selective advantage allowing continual mutation and antigenic variation within cattle populations. Therefore, BVDV has become widespread and causes economic losses due to respiratory, reproductive and enteric disease. Vaccination (modified-live or killed) can provide some protection from acute disease and the development of persistently infected foetuses. However, vaccination programmes alone cannot control or eliminate BVDV. In naturally exposed and vaccinated herds, BVDV infections are not self-limiting and may persistent over time. This underscores the ability of the BVDV genome to remain fluid and adapt under selective pressures. Factors influencing persistence of BVDV infections in cattle populations include: non-lytic infections; evasion of host immune responses; foetal infections; acute infections; management practices; contaminated biologics; secondary hosts; defective replicated intermediates; antigenic variation; and replication in privileged anatomical sites.


pmid: 10195622
title: Cross-protective efficacy of a bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type 1 vaccine against BVDV type 2 challenge
abstract: A new genotype of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), designated BVDV type 2 (BVDV 2), has become prevalent in the field. BVDV 2 strains are antigenically distinct from currently available vaccine strains of the BVDV 1 genotype, raising concerns about cross-protection of these vaccines against BVDV 2 challenge. To determine cross-protective efficacy of a modified-live virus (MLV) vaccine containing BVDV 1 strain WRL (BVDV 1(WRL)), two studies were conducted in which the relative magnitude and duration of BVDV 1- and BVDV 2-specific serologic responses and protection against BVDV 2 challenge were determined. For the first study, 27 heifers were vaccinated (13 i.m. and 14 s.c.), while 13 heifers received negative control vaccine. Serum from the vaccinated heifers neutralized both BVDV 1 and BVDV 2 strains. The evolution and duration of BVDV 1 and BVDV 2 serologic responses were comparable, and antibody titers to BVDV 2 persisted through at least 105 days post-single vaccination. In a second, separate study, 17 calves were vaccinated (9 i.m. and 8 s.c.), and 11 calves were held as unvaccinated controls. Approximately seven months following vaccination, the calves were challenged intranasally with the 890 isolate of BVDV 2. Clinical signs of disease and fever were significantly reduced in vaccinates in comparison with controls. Vaccination eliminated nasal virus shedding in 87% of cattle and completely prevented viremia and leukopenia. These data indicate utility of BVDV 1(WRL) MLV vaccine in stimulation of long-term BVDV 2-specific serologic responses, protection against BVDV 2 challenge and reduction or elimination of virus shedding which can contribute to spread of BVDV 2 in herds.


pmid: 26965235
title: Failed detection of Bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 subgenotype a (BVDV-2a) by direct fluorescent antibody test on tissue samples due to reduced reactivity of field isolates to raw anti-BVDV antibody
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1) is associated with mild or subclinical infections, whereas BVDV-2 is frequently implicated in outbreaks of severe thrombocytopenia and acute fatal disease. In the present study, the carcass of a beef breed cow and tissue samples of a beef calf were received for laboratory diagnosis. Both animals exhibited severe clinical signs compatible with thrombocytopenia or hemorrhagic syndrome. Direct fluorescent antibody test (DFAT) failed to detect BVDV antigen in the tissue specimens of both cases. However, immunohistochemistry (IHC) revealed the presence of BVDV antigen in oral and esophageal mucosa and Peyer patches of the beef breed cow. Real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (real-time RT-PCR) detected BVDV-2 in selected tissues of both animals. Subsequently, BVDV was isolated from both cases and subjected to genetic and serologic characterizations. Mutations in the 5'-untranslated genomic region (5'-UTR) primer and probe binding sites and the E2 gene were associated with reduced efficiency of an established real-time RT-PCR assay and amino acid alterations in the E2 glycoprotein, respectively. Both viral isolates were classified by real-time RT-PCR and phylogenetic analysis as BVDV-2 subgenotype a. Unlike BVDV reference strains Singer and 125c, the isolates cross-reacted with anti-BVDV-1 and anti-BVDV-2 reference sera, indicating antigenic variations in field isolates. The isolates also showed reduced reactivity to porcine anti-BVDV antiserum (the raw serum used to produce BVDV DFA conjugate). In summary, data from the present investigation indicated that genetic and antigenic variations affected the performance of detection assays, especially DFAT, highlighting the need for regular evaluation and modification of BVDV tests.


pmid: 24715596
title: Genotyping and phylogenetic analysis of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolates in Kosovo
abstract: Three serum samples positive in Antigen ELISA BVDV have been tested to characterise genetic diversity of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in Kosovo. Samples were obtained in 2011 from heifers and were amplified by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, sequenced and analysed by computer-assisted phylogenetic analysis. Amplified products and nucleotide sequence showed that all 3 isolates belonged to BVDV 1 genotype and 1b sub genotype. These results enrich the extant knowledge of BVDV and represent the first documented data about Kosovo BVDV isolates.


pmid: 34268349
title: Vaccination Failure in Eradication and Control Programs for Bovine Viral Diarrhea Infection
abstract: Vaccination against bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) is one of the key elements to protect cattle herds from this economically important disorder. Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a pestivirus infecting animals at all ages with significant impact on reproductive, digestive, and respiratory systems. Financial burden caused by this pathogen prompts many farmers to introduce vaccination as the control and prophylactic measure especially when persistently infected (PI) individuals, being the main source of the virus in the herd, are removed after test-and-cull approach. The aim of the study was to compare the serological response in cattle herds where new PI calves were identified without prior removal of PI animals or despite their removal and after the introduction of whole herd vaccination against BVDV infection. Overall seroprevalence in 5 vaccinated herds was 91.7 and 83.3% using ELISA and virus neutralization test, respectively. Despite high titers for both vaccine and field strains of BVDV in analyzed herds the analysis of comparative strength of neutralization indicated that 41.4% of positive samples did not have a predominant titer against one specific subtype of BVDV. In 3 herds BVDV-1b subtype was identified while in 2 others it was BVDV-1d, while the vaccine used was based on BVDV-1a which was never identified in Poland so far. To increase the success of the BVDV eradication program, a careful approach is suggested when planning herd vaccination. Comparison of existing field strains and their similarity with vaccine strains at antigenic and genetic levels can be a useful approach to increase the effectiveness of vaccination and efficient protection of fetuses from persistent infection.


pmid: 25813600
title: Development of sheep kidney cells with increased resistance to different subgenotypes of BVDV-1 by RNA interference
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) should be a ubiquitous viral pathogen to the cattle and sheep industry. This pathogen is responsible for severe economic losses. We previously showed that plasmid-mediated dual short hairpin RNA (shRNA) efficiently inhibit BVDV replication in bovine kidney epithelial (MDBK) cells. In this study, we delivered the dual shRNA system to sheep fibroblasts and generated transgenic cell colonies. These transgenic fibroblasts were further used for somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT). Three lambs were born at full term, but perished soon after birth. Integration of shRNA into the genome of cloned sheep was confirmed by PCR and expression of shRNA in transgenic sheep was confirmed by real-time PCR. Kidney epithelial cells were isolated from transgenic sheep and challenged with multiple BVDV subgenotypes (BVDV-1a, BVDV-1b and BVDV-1c). The dual shRNA expressed in transgenic kidney epithelial cells significantly inhibited BVDV replication in a cross-resistance manner. Our results showed that transgenic RNAi might be a useful tool for preparation of transgenic animals with increased resistance to BVDV.


pmid: 33338948
title: Persistent infection of American bison (Bison bison) with bovine viral diarrhea virus and bosavirus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) are significant pathogens of cattle, leading to losses associated with reproductive failure, respiratory disease and immune dysregulation. While cattle are the reservoir for BVDV, a wide range of domestic and wild ruminants are susceptible to infection and disease caused by BVDV. Samples from four American bison (Bison bison) from a captive herd were submitted for diagnostic testing due to their general unthriftiness. Metagenomic sequencing on pooled nasal swabs and serum identified co-infection with a BVDV and a bovine bosavirus. The BVDV genome was more similar to the vaccine strain Oregon C24 V than to other BVDV sequences in GenBank, with 92.7 % nucleotide identity in the open reading frame. The conserved 5'-untranslated region was 96.3 % identical to Oregon C24 V. Bosavirus has been previously identified in pooled fetal bovine serum but its clinical significance is unknown. Sequencing results were confirmed by virus isolation and PCR detection of both viruses in serum and nasal swab samples from two of the four bison. One animal was co-infected with both BVDV and bosavirus while separate individuals were positive solely for BVDV or bosavirus. Serum and nasal swabs from these same animals collected 51 days later remained positive for BVDV and bosavirus. These results suggest that both viruses can persistently infect bison. While the etiological significance of bosavirus infection is unknown, the ability of BVDV to persistently infect bison has implications for BVDV control and eradication programs. Possible synergy between BVDV and bosavirus persistent infection warrants further study.


pmid: 9850989
title: Detection of antibodies to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and characterization of genomes of BVDV from Brazil
abstract: An ELISA for the detection of antibodies to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was developed based on antigens derived from a genotype I BVDV strain isolated in Switzerland. Using monoclonal antibodies we showed that this antigen contained the conserved non-structural protein NS3 whereas it essentially lacked the more strain-specific E2 surface glycoprotein. This ELISA has a sensitivity of 97.5% and a specificity of 99.2% as compared to the serum neutralization test (SNT). Preliminary experiments showed that this ELISA reliably detects antibodies to BVDV strains circulating in Brazil. Serum samples obtained from 430 adult cattle on 19 farms of the State of Rio Grande do Sul (Brazil) and one farm from Corrientes (Argentina) were tested for antibodies by means of this ELISA. We found antibodies in 56% +/- 15.1% of the cattle sera tested, which indicates that, in Brazil, the prevalence of infection with BVDV is similar to that found in Europe and the USA. Our sequence analysis of two BVDV isolates showed that BVDV of both genotypes I and II circulate in Brazil.


pmid: 25818170
title: Prevalence of exposure to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and bovine herpesvirus-1 (BoHV-1) in Irish dairy herds
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and bovine herpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1) are contagious bovine viral agents. The objectives of this study were to use quarterly bulk milk and 'spot' testing of unvaccinated youngstock to establish the national prevalence of exposure to BVDV and/or BoHV-1 in Irish dairy herds. Seasonality of bulk milk ELISA results was also examined. From a geographically representative population of 305 dairy herds, 88% and 80% of herds yielded mean annual positive bulk milk readings for BVDV and BoHV-1, respectively. Of these, 61% were vaccinated against BVDV and 12% against BoHV-1. A total of 2171 serum samples from weanlings having a mean age of 291 days yielded 543 (25%) seropositive for BVDV, and 117 (5.4%) seropositive for BoHV-1. A significant seasonal trend in bulk milk antibody ELISA readings and herd status was recorded for BVDV, with more herds categorised as positive in the latter half of the year.


pmid: 9413513
title: Genomic (5'UTR) and serological differences among German BVDV field isolates
abstract: Isolates of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) collected in Germany were examined for their genomic heterogeneity in sequences from the 5'untranslated region (UTR) of the viral genome. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests based on the 5'UTR and the region coding for the NS2-3/4A polypeptide were used to differentiate between BVDV I and BVDV II genotypes. Eleven out of 96 BVDV-isolates were identified as BVDV II. Virus neutralization tests with BVDV I- or II-specific antisera raised in cattle were done. The mean titers were reduced by 7.2-fold (BVDV I-antiserum versus type II-isolates) or 35-fold (BVDV II-antiserum versus type I-isolates) when using the respective heterologous virus.


pmid: 20225008
title: Molecular characterization of Bovine virus diarrhea viruses species 2 (BVDV-2) from cattle in Turkey
abstract: Five BVDV species 2 (BVDV-2) isolates were detected from cattle in Turkey. Phylogenetic analysis was performed based on the 5' untranslated regions (UTRs) and E2 coding gene regions, respectively. The isolates were closely related to BVDV-2a strains from North America and Canada used as references. This is the first report of the detection of BVDV-2 in naturally infected Turkish cattle. It is important to consider BVDV-2 for planning future BVDV control and vaccination programs in Turkey.


pmid: 25928921
title: Detection of the bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in young beef cattle in eastern and south-eastern regions of Poland
abstract: In view of the scarcity of information concerning viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infections in beef cattle in Poland, the aim of this study was to evaluate the presence of the BVDV in young beef cattle from selected herds in eastern and south-eastern regions of Poland. The material consisted of 78 sera obtained from beef cattle from 15 farms, aged 6-12 months. The anti-BVDV antibody level in the sera was estimated with an ELISA kit, and detection of the BVDV was carried out by standard PCR and one step Real-Time RT-PCR. The ELISA results showed a high degree (80%) of positivity in 5 of the 78 samples. In 7 samples the degree of positivity was in the very low range: < 40%. Of the 78 cDNA samples, the presence of genetic material with a length of 288 bp was found by standard PCR in 3 sera. The genetic material of BVDV was also found in the sera of the same three calves by Real-Time HRM PCR. BVDV infection in young beef cattle in south-eastern Poland is not a significant problem. This was confirmed by the positive ELISA results for 6.4% of the animals and the positive PCR results for 3.9%. The percentage of positive beef herds was about 8.6%. However, due to the severe nature of the disease and rapid transmission of the virus, regular monitoring of BVDV should be carried out.


pmid: 23768649
title: Embryos produced from fertilization with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)-infected semen and the risk of disease transmission to embryo transfer (ET) recipients and offspring
abstract: Bovine diarrhea virus (BVDV) causes a variety of economically important enteric and infertility problems in cattle. For that reason, several countries have eradicated the disease, and some others have schemes in progress to achieve freedom. Although there is a considerable amount of information about the risk of BVDV transmission through contaminated semen used for artificial insemination (AI), there is no evidence to indicate whether the resulting embryos, when used for embryo transfer, can lead to the transmission of BVDV to recipients or offspring. For this experiment, semen from a bull persistently infected with BVDV (10(5) 50% tissue culture infective doses/mL NY strain) was used for insemination (two times at estrus) of BVDV-seronegative, superovulated cows (N = 35). Embryos were collected 7 days after insemination and subsequently were washed according to the International Embryo Transfer Society recommendations or left unwashed. Out of 302 collected oocytes and embryos, 173 (57%) were fertilized and the remaining 129 (43%) had degenerated. Infectious BVDV was detected in 24% (17/71) of unwashed and 10% (8/77) of washed embryos, and in all (N = 11) follicular fluid samples, oviductal epithelial cells, endometrium, and corpora lutea tissues as determined by the virus isolation test. After transfer of 39 washed embryos to 27 BVDV-seronegative recipients, 12 (44%) cows became pregnant and 17 calves free of BVDV and BVDV antibodies, including five sets of twins, were born. After embryo transfer, all pregnant and nonpregnant recipients remained free of BVDV and antibodies. In conclusion, results herein suggest that BVDV can be transmitted by AI resulting in the production of some proportion of contaminated embryos. However, it appears that such embryos, when washed according to International Embryo Transfer Society and the World Organization for Animal Health guidelines do not cause BVDV transmission to recipients or their offspring.


pmid: 30121755
title: Persistent BVD virus infections in offspring from imported heifers
abstract: The aim of this study was to investigate the possible risk of bovine viral diarrhea virus transport from imported live animals. For this purpose, two different groups of animals were sampled in this study. Group 1 consisted of pregnant heifers; group 2 consisted of male beef cattle imported during 2011-2012 and 2015, respectively. Blood samples were tested for pestivirus antigen using a commercial BVDV antigen ELISA. All the pregnant heifers were negative, but 9 out of 412 offspring and 5 of the 332 male cattle were BVDV antigen positive. Virus isolation and also investigation by RT-PCR were carried out by using 14 ELISA-positive samples. At the end of three blind passages, eight non-cytopathogenic isolates were obtained by indirect immunoperoxidase monolayer assay, which were also RT-PCR positive using panpesti-virus primers. After discriminative RT-PCR, all the isolates that were identified as BVDV-1 and 5'UTR-based analysis demonstrated the existence of BVDV-1b (n = 4), BVDV-1f (n = 2), BVDV-1 l (n = 1), and BVDV-1r (n = 1) subgenotypes. There was no BVDV subgroup that is newly introduced into the country. However, detection of persistent infection in calves born from imported animals demonstrates the risk of BVDV virus introduction by imported animals into the receiving country. Viral strains from persistently infected animals were characterized as BVDV-1b, which is predominant subgroup in the country where animals are imported. These results highlight a possible problem for the areas where a BVDV control program is currently ongoing. Additionally, sequences obtained in this study also showed that there are two distinct branches identified in BVDV-1l.


pmid: 19875251
title: Characterisation of a new infectious full-length cDNA clone of BVDV genotype 2 and generation of virus mutants
abstract: Based on their genomic sequences, two genotypes of Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) can be differentiated, BVDV type 1 (BVDV-1) and BVDV type 2 (BVDV-2). The complete genomic sequence of the highly virulent BVDV-2 strain 890 was cloned as cDNA to establish the infectious cDNA clone p890FL. In vitro-synthesised full-length RNA of p890FL was transfected into bovine cells and infectious virus could be recovered (v890FL). In vitro, recombinant v890FL showed similar growth characteristics as wild type virus v890WT. However, infection experiments in calves revealed an attenuation of recombinant v890FL in comparison to the parental isolate. Both leukocytopenia and fever were less pronounced in v890FL-infected calves. Nevertheless, viremia and virus shedding were comparable between recombinant and parental BVDV 890. Furthermore, mutants with partial deletions of the genomic region encoding for the autoprotease N(pro) (p890DeltaN(pro)) or the capsid protein (p890DeltaC) were constructed and characterised. In order to generate pseudovirions, replicon p890DeltaC was efficiently trans-complemented on a helper cell line. In summary, the newly developed construct p890FL represents the first infectious full-length cDNA clone for the BVDV-2 strain 890 and offers a useful tool for further studies on the pathogenesis of BVDV-2 and the development of novel recombinant BVDV-2 specific vaccine candidates.


pmid: 21597952
title: Investigation of a dual fetal infection model with bovine viral diarrhoea viruses (BVDV)-1 and BVDV-2
abstract: Two studies were performed in pregnant heifers to determine whether inoculation with two bovine viral diarrhoea viruses (BVDV), one BVDV-1 and one BVDV-2, inoculated separately into either nostril, results in fetal infection with both viruses. Dual transplacental infection of the fetus with BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 was observed in one case, but not consistently.


pmid: 34092457
title: An adventitious agent-free clonal cell line that is highly susceptible to foot -and-mouth disease virus
abstract: Porcine LFBKαVβ6 cells have been successfully used for diagnostics and propagation of all FMDV serotypes/subtypes. Unfortunately, after initial characterization, these cells showed contamination with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a non-cytopathic adventitious agent. Persistent infection with BVDV could interfere with diagnostic tests and, also prevent consideration for other uses, i.e., vaccine production. In this study, we developed a three-prong methodology to completely remove BVDV from LFBKαVβ6 cells. Combined treatment with siRNA against BVDV NS5A, porcine interferon alpha and ribavirin resulted in the elimination of BVDV, as determined by immunohistochemistry analysis, quantitative RT-PCR and RNA sequencing. Importantly, elimination of BVDV from LFBKαVβ6 did not affect FMDV growth and plaque phenotype from different serotypes isolated and propagated in the clean cell line, newly named MGPK αVβ6-C5. Additionally, isolation of FMDV from field oro-pharyngeal samples, was successful at the same sensitivity as in BVDV-contaminated LFBKαVβ6 cells. Our results identified a direct method to efficiently eliminate BVDV from porcine cells without altering FMDV permissiveness, diagnostic value, or potential for use in vaccine production. Furthermore, these cells may provide an improved platform for diagnostics and propagation of other viruses of interest in the veterinary field and the virology community at large.


pmid: 16183156
title: Practical significance of heterogeneity among BVDV strains: impact of biotype and genotype on U.S. control programs
abstract: In the early 1990s research groups in North America noted that a newly recognized severe acute form of bovine viral diarrhea virus infection, referred to as hemorrhagic syndrome or severe acute BVDV (SA BVDV), was associated with a genetically distinct subgroup of BVDV strains. This new subgroup was named BVDV genotype 2 or BVDV2. All BVDV strains previously characterized in the literature belonged to a separate genotype, BVDV1. However, not all strains identified as BVDV2 were associated with severe acute infections. If I did this deletion, I did not mean to do it. I think it was already here, though. I see there are some other big edits that I did not do; fine. Hollis subsequent surveys of BVDV strains isolated from clinical submissions to diagnostic laboratories and contaminated fetal calf serum suggested that the ratio of BVDV2 to BVDV1 strains in the U.S. approached 50%. Further, while antigenic cross reactivity is seen between BVDV1 and BVDV2 strains, a log or more difference is typically observed in titers against viruses from different genotypes. These observations prompted vaccine manufacturers in North America to produce vaccines against BVDV that contained antigens from both BVDV1 and BVDV2 strains. Under experimental conditions, these new vaccines offered improved protection against type 2 strains, however field data are still insufficient to assess their efficacy in practice. The BVDV genotypes may also be segregated into subgenotypes. Two subgenotypes of both BVDV1 (BVDV1a and BVDV1b) and BVDV2 (BVDV2a and BVDV2b) have been reported in North American. BVDV2a predominates with BVDV2b isolation a rare event. In contrast, BVDV1a and BVDV1b are both commonly isolated. Antigenic differences observed between strains from the BVDV1a and BVDV1b subgenotypes have led to the suggestion that protection may be improved by inclusion of strains from both BVDV1a and BVDV1b in vaccines in addition to BVDV2. The cost to benefit ratio of this proposal is currently a matter of debate.


pmid: 20619188
title: The contribution of infections with bovine viral diarrhea viruses to bovine respiratory disease
abstract: The contribution of bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) to the development of bovine respiratory disease is the sum of several different factors. These factors include the contribution of acute uncomplicated BVDV infections, the high incidence of respiratory disease in animals persistently infected with BVDV, the immunosuppression that accompanies acute BVDV infections and predisposes animals to secondary infections, and the synergy resulting in increased virulence occurring in coinfections of BVDV with other pathogens. Immunosuppression, which is associated with infection with all BVDV, may have the greatest impact of these factors. Control of BVDV infections rests on reducing exposure by removing BVDV persistently infected animals, increasing herd resistance by vaccination, and instituting biocontrol methods that limit the opportunity for introduction of BVDV into herds and management units.


pmid: 24880701
title: Immunogenicity of an inactivated Chinese bovine viral diarrhea virus 1a (BVDV 1a) vaccine cross protects from BVDV 1b infection in young calves
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) 1a and 1b strains are the predominant subgenotypes in China. Because of the genetic and antigenic variability among different BVDV strains, a vaccine effective in one region may fail to protect against infections caused by different virus strains in another region. No BVDV vaccine developed with the predominant strains in China are available. In this study, the immunogenicity of an inactivated Chinese BVDV 1a NM01 vaccine strain was evaluated by challenging with a Chinese BVDV 1b JL strain. Ten 2-4-month-old calves were intramuscularly vaccinated with a single dose of the vaccine strain and boosted with same dose three weeks after the first vaccination, with five mock immunized calves serving as a control group. The average titer of neutralization antibody to BVDV 1a and BVDV 1b of immunized calves reached 1:410 and 1:96, respectively, at 21 days post the second vaccination. Twenty-one days post the second vaccination, all calves were challenged with strain JL. The clinical signs, such as the temperature and leukopenia of the immunized calves and viral shedding, were significantly less than the mock immunized calves after challenging with the virulent BVDV 1b strain, indicating that the BVDV 1a vaccine strain elicited efficacious protection against the endemic BVDV 1b strain in China. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of an inactivated BVDV vaccine which demonstrated effective cross-protection against BVDV type 1b infection in China.


pmid: 30955148
title: Genetic analysis of bovine viral diarrhea virus in pre-weaned native Korean calves
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a prominent viral pathogen worldwide, causes substantial economic losses in the cattle industry. BVDV comprises two recognized species, BVDV-1 and BVDV-2, and at least 21 subtypes (1a-1u) for BVDV-1 and four subtypes (2a-2d) for BVDV-2 based on its 5'-untranslated region. This study aimed at investigating the prevalence and genetic analysis of BVDV in calf feces in the Republic of Korea (ROK). We collected fecal samples from 635 pre-weaned native Korean calves aged 1-60 days, regardless of diarrhea, and subjected them to RT-PCR and phylogenetic analysis. Thirty-five (5.5%) of the 635 samples were positive for BVDV infection. BVDV was detected in 20, 10, and 5 calves aged 1-20 days, 21-40 days, and 41-60 days, respectively. BVDV was the most frequent in 17 normal feces, followed by 16 diarrheic feces, and 2 hemorrhagic feces. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that 25 samples belonged to BVDV-1b; 1 sample, BVDV-1c; and 9 samples, BVDV-2a. Moreover, the BVDV-1b and BVDV-2a isolates showed genetic variations. BVDV-1b was detected in diarrheic, hemorrhagic, and normal fecal samples. Thus, BVDV-1b is the most prevalent in calves and causes enteric disease with differing severity. BVDV-1c was newly identified in diarrheic calves. Further studies are warranted to elucidate the pathogenesis of BVDV-1c infection and its clinical manifestations. Our results indicate that effective vaccines and control programs against BVDV are required in the ROK.


pmid: 1966716
title: Molecular biology of bovine virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: Our understanding of the molecular biology of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) has greatly increased over the past several years. The development of monoclonal antibodies (MAB's) has identified a key antigen of BVDV while at the same time providing evidence for considerable variation in this protein. MAB's, particularly those directed against the p80 protein, can be developed for use in diagnostic tests while others may be useful in molecular epidemiological studies of BVDV. The successful cloning of BVDV and hog cholera virus can provide nucleic acid probes for use in routine diagnostic testing, for use in pathogenesis studies and for the detection of BVDV contamination in biological materials. With the identification of the key antigens of BVDV and its molecular cloning, the future holds the promise of vectored vaccines which can provide the efficacy of modified-live vaccines with the safety of killed vaccines. However, much work still must be done to define the significance of the antigenic variation of BVDV as it relates to providing protection for the developing fetus.


pmid: 34147217
title: The effect of new bovine viral diarrhea virus introduction on somatic cell count, calving interval, culling, and calf mortality of dairy herds in the Dutch bovine viral diarrhea virus-free program
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection has a major effect on the health of cows and consequently on herd performance. Many countries have implemented control or eradication programs to mitigate BVDV infection and its negative effects. These negative effects of BVDV infection on dairy herds are well documented, but there is much less information about the effects of new introduction of BVDV on dairy herds already participating in a BVDV control program. The objective of our study was to investigate the effect of a new BVDV introduction in BVDV-free herds participating in the Dutch BVDV-free program on herd performance. Longitudinal herd-level surveillance data were combined with herd information data to create 4 unique data sets, including a monthly test-day somatic cell count (SCC) data set, annual calving interval (CIV) and culling risk (CR) data sets, and a quarterly calf mortality rate (CMR) data set. Each database contained 2 types of herds: herds that remained BVDV free during the whole study period (defined as free herds), and herds that lost their BVDV-free status during the study period (defined as breakdown herds). The date of losing the BVDV-free status was defined as breakdown date. To compare breakdown herds with free herds, a random breakdown date was artificially generated for free herds by simple random sampling from the distribution of the breakdown month of the breakdown herds. The SCC and CIV before and after a new introduction of BVDV were compared through linear mixed-effects models with a Gaussian distribution, and the CR and CMR were modeled using a negative binomial distribution in generalized linear mixed-effects models. The explanatory variables for all models included herd type, BVDV status, year, and a random herd effect. Herd size was included as an explanatory variable in the SCC, CIV, and CMR model. Season was included as an explanatory variable in the SCC and CMR model. Results showed that free herds have lower SCC, CR, CMR, and shorter CIV than the breakdown herds. Within the breakdown herds, the new BVDV introduction affected the SCC and CMR. In the year after BVDV introduction, the SCC was higher than that in the year before BVDV introduction, with a factor of 1.011 [2.5th to 97.5th percentile (95% PCTL): 1.002, 1.020]. Compared with the year before BVDV breakdown, the CMR in the year of breakdown and the year after breakdown was higher, with factors of 1.170 (95% PCTL: 1.120; 1.218) and 1.096 (95% PCTL: 1.048; 1.153), respectively. This study reveals that a new introduction of BVDV had a negative but on average relatively small effect on herd performance in herds participating in a BVDV control program.


pmid: 21136161
title: Evaluation of transmission of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) between persistently infected and naive cattle by the horn fly (Haematobia irritans)
abstract: Identifying reservoirs and transmission routes for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) are important in developing biosecurity programs. The aim of this study was to evaluate BVDV transmission by the hematophagous horn fly (Haematobia irritans). Flies collected from four persistently infected cattle were placed in fly cages attached to principal (n = 4) and control (n = 4) BVDV-naïve calves housed individually in isolation rooms. Flies were able to feed on principal calves, but a barrier prevented fly feeding from control calves. Flies were tested for BVDV by RT-PCR and virus isolation at time of collection from PI cattle and after 48 h of exposure on BVDV-naïve calves. Blood samples were collected from calves and tested for BVDV infection. Virus was isolated from fly homogenates at collection from PI animals and at removal from control and principal calves. All calves remained negative for BVDV by virus isolation and serology throughout the study. Bovine viral diarrhea virus may be detected in horn flies collected from PI cattle, but horn flies do not appear to be an important vector for BVDV transmission.


pmid: 21136161
title: Evaluation of transmission of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) between persistently infected and naive cattle by the horn fly (Haematobia irritans)
abstract: Identifying reservoirs and transmission routes for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) are important in developing biosecurity programs. The aim of this study was to evaluate BVDV transmission by the hematophagous horn fly (Haematobia irritans). Flies collected from four persistently infected cattle were placed in fly cages attached to principal (n = 4) and control (n = 4) BVDV-naïve calves housed individually in isolation rooms. Flies were able to feed on principal calves, but a barrier prevented fly feeding from control calves. Flies were tested for BVDV by RT-PCR and virus isolation at time of collection from PI cattle and after 48 h of exposure on BVDV-naïve calves. Blood samples were collected from calves and tested for BVDV infection. Virus was isolated from fly homogenates at collection from PI animals and at removal from control and principal calves. All calves remained negative for BVDV by virus isolation and serology throughout the study. Bovine viral diarrhea virus may be detected in horn flies collected from PI cattle, but horn flies do not appear to be an important vector for BVDV transmission.


pmid: 32768238
title: Failure in dry period vaccination strategy for bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea is a common disease of cattle and has significant impact on animal welfare worldwide. There are fundamental approaches i.e. elimination of persistently infected animals, vaccination and biosecurity measures for effective control and eradication of BVD virus (BVDV). By this study, the presence of persistent infection with divergent BVDV subgenotype in the calves in a dairy herd having regular vaccination program was investigated. In the herd, vaccinated with a killed whole virion trivalent vaccine (composed of BVDV-1a) during the dry period of the cows, abortion cases were existed in the late autumn 2019. During herd screening by BVDV antigen-ELISA, 2 out of 300 dams were detected positive. Following, by ear notch-based BVDV antigen-ELISA, 30 calves were detected positive. Confirmation of persistent BVDV infection was performed 3 weeks later by testing with antigen-ELISA, where 8 of 9 selected newborn calves were positive for the second time. The entire antigen-ELISA positive samples were subjected to virus isolation on MDBK cell culture and identified as non-cytopathogenic pestiviruses by indirect immunoperoxidase assay. Presence of pestivirus RNA was detected in the 8 isolates by panpestivirus RT-PCR. Analysis of the 5'UTR regions revealed that BVDV-1 r circulate in the herd. Results of this study lead to questioning the efficiency of dry period vaccination strategy against BVDV. But otherwise, vaccination with BVDV-1a can be inefficient for complete protection against BVDV-1 r. Therefore, serological relationship between mentioned subgenotypes or protection by current vaccines against latest field isolates needs to be investigated before development of new BVDV vaccine candidates.


pmid: 16086824
title: Genetic diversity of bovine viral diarrhoea viruses (BVDV) in Denmark during a 10-year eradication period
abstract: A 243 base-pair fragment of the 5'- untranslated region (5'-UTR) of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was RT-PCR amplified from tissue samples (after one passage) or from plasma collected from Danish cattle in 1962 (1), 1993 (7), or in 2002-03 (28) when BVD was almost extinct as a result of a 6-year eradication programme. The PCR products were sequenced and phylogenetically analysed. All 36 samples were BVDV species 1 (BVDV-1), 29 sequences belonged to the BVDV 1d subtype, 6 to the BVDV 1b subtype, and one sequence to the BVDV 1e subtype. While all samples from 1993 and 1962 were of 1d subtype, the samples collected in 2002-2003 belonged to 1d (22 samples), 1b (5 samples) and 1e (1 sample) subtypes. In five herds, materials from two animals were obtained for PCR analysis. In four of five herds the sequences of the two viruses were identical, but in one herd the obtained sequences belonged to two different subtypes. Routine analysis detected 11 PI calves older than 2 months of age. For early detection of infected calves it is recommended that antigen ELISA be replaced by PCR detection. Here we present the first sequence analysis of Danish BVDV strains.


pmid: 7676648
title: The genomic sequence of a virulent bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) from the type 2 genotype: detection of a large genomic insertion in a noncytopathic BVDV
abstract: A second genotype of bovine viral diarrhea virus, BVDV genotype 2 or BVDV 2, has been identified based on phylogenic analysis of sequences from the 5' untranslated region of the viral RNA. In this study, we derived the complete nucleic acid sequence of a virulent BVDV 2 virus, BVDV2-890, isolated from an animal that died of an acute uncomplicated BVDV infection. BVDV2-890 is noncytopathic in cell culture and does not produce a p80 viral polypeptide. The ORF of BVDV2-890 is 11,922 nucleotide bases long and codes for 3973 amino acids. In comparison, the ORFs of other noncytopathic pestiviruses are shorter by about 250 nucleotides. The sequence identity at the amino acid level, between BVDV2-890 and published sequences for other pestiviruses, is 74% or less. The most conserved nucleotide and amino acid sequences between BVDV2-890 and other pestiviruses are located in the region coding for the nonstructural protein p80. The least conserved are in the regions coding for the structural polypeptide gp53 and nonstructural polypeptides p54 and p58. The larger size of the BVDV2-890 ORF is due to a 228-nucleotide insertion in the portion of the genome coding for the viral polypeptide p54. The location of this insertion was upstream from those reported in cytopathic pestiviruses. This insertion was not characteristic of all of the BVDV 2 viruses or all of the virulent BVDV 2 viruses.


pmid: 16979307
title: Limited BVDV transmission and full protection against CSFV transmission in pigs experimentally infected with BVDV type 1b
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in pigs may interfere with the detection and epidemiology of classical swine fever virus (CSFV). To investigate the importance of BVDV infections in pigs, first we studied the transmission dynamics of a recent BVDV field isolate. Subsequently, the protection of BVD antibodies against transmission and clinical disease of CSF virus was studied. Only limited transmission of BVDV occurred (R = 0.20), while no CSFV transmission occurred in pigs with BVDV antibodies. We concluded that BVDV transmission among pigs is possible, but seems to be limited and thus the virus should disappear from a population if no new introductions occur. Furthermore, the presence of BVD antibodies may completely prevent the transmission of CSFV and therefore could protect pigs against classical swine fever. It was also noticed that double infections with BVDV and CSFV were incorrectly diagnosed using the neutralization peroxidase linked assay (NPLA), which is the golden standard for antibody detection. This might hamper the diagnosis of CSF in herds with a high BVD prevalence.


pmid: 24809640
title: Changes observed in the thymus and lymph nodes 14 days after exposure to BVDV field strains of enhanced or typical virulence in neonatal calves
abstract: Clinical presentation following uncomplicated acute infection with bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) ranges from clinically unapparent to severe (including hemorrhagic disease and death) depending on the strain virulence. Regardless of clinical presentation, BVDV infection of cattle results in a generalized immunosuppression. BVDV immunosuppression is characterized by a reduction of circulating white blood cells (WBC) that is typically evident by day 3 post infection (PI). In infections with typical BVDV field strains WBC counts decrease until days 6-9 PI and then return to baseline values. In infections with enhanced virulence BVDV, WBC counts may continue to decline through day 14. In this study, the lymph nodes and thymus of non-infected neonatal calves and neonatal calves infected 14 days previously with either a BVDV of typical virulence or one of enhanced virulence were compared. It was found that while calves, infected with the typical virulence BVDV, had cleared BVDV, and WBC counts had returned to near baseline, the number of B-B7(+) cells in lymph nodes were reduced whereas numbers of CD4(+) cells were increased as compared to control calves. In contrast, calves infected with the high virulence strain, had not cleared the virus by day 14 and WBC counts had not returned to pre-exposure levels. Furthermore, these calves had more substantial deficits of B-B7(+) and CD4(+) cell subpopulations, compared to calves infected with a typical virulence strain. There were also an increased number of macrophages observed in both lymphoid tissues examined. The thymuses from both groups of BVDV-infected calves were significantly smaller than non-infected age matched calves. The reduction in size was accompanied by a significant depletion of the thymic cortex. These results indicate that regardless of the virulence of the infecting BVDV, infection leaves neonatal calves with deficits in specific lymphocyte subsets and lymphoid tissues that could have long-term immunosuppressive implications.


pmid: 9618867
title: The immune response of cattle, persistently infected with noncytopathic BVDV, after superinfection with antigenically semi-homologous cytopathic BVDV
abstract: Cattle persistently infected (PI) with noncytopathic (ncp) bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV) are at risk for developing fatal mucosal disease (MD), which is considered to occur after superinfection with antigenically homologous cytopathic (cp) BVDV. In this study, we intranasally inoculated four PI-animals, that were PI with 2 ncp BVDV strains with 10(5) TCID50 antigenically closely related cp BVDV. Two PI-animals were inoculated with 10(5) TCID50 ncp BVDV and one PI-animal, with virus free cell culture medium. Two out of four PI-animals that were inoculated with cp BVDV, developed MD and were euthanized at day 17 and at day 24 after infection. Postmortem, both animals showed typical lesions of MD and cp BVDV was isolated. The other two PI-animals that were inoculated with cp BVDV did not develop MD and were euthanized at day 51. They showed ulcerations in the gastrointestinal tract, cp BVDV was isolated and neutralizing antibodies were detected. From the three PI-animals, that were inoculated with ncp BVDV or cell culture medium, cp BVDV was also isolated. Cross neutralization tests were performed and no antigenic differences could be detected between the cp strains isolated from the PI-animals. Lymphocyte subsets of these PI-animals were determined by flow cytometric analysis. Before superinfection, the percentages of gamma delta subsets were much higher in the PI-animals that did not develop MD than in nonviremic control animals and in the PI-animals that died of MD. From this study we conclude that the presence of antigenically closely related cp BVDV in PI-animals does not necessarily lead to the development of MD and that besides the antigenic relatedness between the persisting ncp BVDV and cp BVDV other factors, for instance the number of circulating gamma delta cells, might determine whether or not PI-animals develop MD.


pmid: 17037609
title: Test strategies in bovine viral diarrhea virus control and eradication campaigns in Europe
abstract: Several European countries have initiated national and regional control-and-eradication campaigns for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Most of these campaigns do not involve the use of vaccines; in Germany, vaccination is used only in states in which it is considered necessary because of high BVDV prevalence. In European countries without organized BVDV control programs, vaccination is commonly used to control BVDV. Diagnostic test strategies are fundamental to all control-and-eradication campaigns; therefore, the purpose of this review is to describe how the available diagnostic tests are combined into test strategies in the various phases of control-and-eradication campaigns in Europe. Laboratory techniques are available for BVDV diagnosis at the individual animal level and at the herd level. These are strategically used to achieve 3 main objectives: 1) initial tests to classify herd status, 2) follow-up tests to identify individual BVDV-infected animals in infected herds, and 3) continued monitoring to confirm BVDV-free status. For each objective or phase, the validity of the diagnostic tests depends on the mode of BVDV introduction and duration of infection in test-positive herds, and on how long noninfected herds have been clear of BVDV. Therefore, the various herd-level diagnostic tools--such as antibody detection in bulk milk or in blood samples from young stock animals, or BVDV detection in bulk milk--need to be combined appropriately to obtain effective strategies at low cost. If the individual diagnostic tests are used with due consideration of the objectives of a specific phase of a BVDV control program, they are effective tools for controlling and eradicating BVDV in regions not using vaccination and where vaccination is a part of the control or eradication program.


pmid: 9210923
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus proteins and their antigenic analyses
abstract: Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) polypeptides present in infected cells are the result of the processing of the polyprotein translated from the large single open reading frame of the BVDV genomic RNA. The presence of these proteins in infected cells was studied by radiolabeling under hypertonic conditions and with the aid of radioimmunoprecipitation. The genomic mapping of these polypeptides suggests a complex pattern of processing which involves cellular and viral proteases. The consistent absence of 80k in noncytopathic isolates of BVDV suggests that the processing of the viral polyprotein is different in cytopathic and noncytopathic biotypes of BVDV. The antigenic structure of BVDV was studied with a panel of monoclonal antibodies (MABs) prepared against the Singer isolate of BVDV. Neutralizing MABs were found to bind the 56-58k polypeptide, providing evidence that this glycoprotein is present on the surface of the virion and carries neutralization epitopes. Antigenic analyses with the panel of MABs reveals extensive antigenic heterogeneity among BVDV field isolates. MABs were used to determine the frequency of neutralization escape mutants in stocks of BVDV. Plaque-purified BVDV stocks contain neutralization escape mutants with a frequency of 10(-2.47).


pmid: 35614328
title: Non-structural proteins of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) belongs to the family Flaviviridae genus pestivirus. The viral genome is a single-stranded, positive-sense RNA that encodes four structural proteins (i.e., C, Erns, E1, and E2) and eight non-structural proteins (NSPs) (i.e., Npro, p7, NS2, NS3, NS4A, NS4B, NS5A, and NS5B). Cattle infected with BVDV exhibit a number of different clinical signs including diarrhea, abortion, and other reproductive disorders which have a serious impact on the cattle industry worldwide. Research on BVDV mainly focuses on its structural protein, however, progress in understanding the functions of the NSPs of BVDV has also been made in recent decades. The knowledge gained on the BVDV non-structural proteins is helpful to more fully understand the viral replication process and the molecular mechanism of viral persistent infection. This review focuses on the functions of BVDV NSPs and provides references for the identification of BVDV, the diagnosis and prevention of Bovine viral diarrhea mucosal disease (BVD-MD), and the development of vaccines.


pmid: 19446589
title: Comparison of humoral and cellular immune responses to a pentavalent modified live virus vaccine in three age groups of calves with maternal antibodies, before and after BVDV type 2 challenge
abstract: The aim of this study was to evaluate the ability of a pentavalent (BVDV types 1 and 2, BHV-1, BRSV, and PI-3) modified live virus (MLV) vaccine given to 1-2-, 4-5-, and 7-8-week-old calves with maternal antibodies to induce humoral and cellular immune responses and protect calves from virulent BVDV type 2. Eight calves in each age group were vaccinated and four served as controls. All calves were challenged intranasally with BVDV type 2, 12 weeks after vaccination. SVN titers to all five viruses declined in all groups after vaccination (except 4-5-week-old calves to BVDV type 1). After challenge, the SVN titers for both types of BVDV showed anamnestic responses in calves vaccinated at 4-5 and 7-8 weeks, but not at 1-2 weeks of age. In all groups, T cell subsets responded specifically to BVDV types 1 and 2 but not to BHV-1, BRSV, or PI-3 after vaccination by increasing their expression of activation markers (CD25, IFN-gamma and IL-4). All vaccinated calves were significantly protected from BVDV type 2 challenge.


pmid: 19118890
title: A sensitive and efficient detection method for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in single preimplantation bovine embryos
abstract: The objective was to develop a method to accurately and efficiently detect minute amounts of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) associated with a single embryo. There are two major challenges for BVDV detection in a single embryo: the test sensitivity and the efficiency of viral molecule recovery. These become even more critical when attempts are made to detect BVDV infections that occurred naturally, not through artificial exposure of the embryos to high affinity BVDV strains. We have developed a one-step sample preparation method that has increased the viral molecule recovery rate compared to the standard RNA isolation procedure by 7-100-fold. Instead of using the traditional virus exposure approach, we generated BVDV positive embryos via somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) technology using BVDV positive donor cells. By combining the highly efficient sample preparation procedure with a sensitive one-step, real-time PCR system, we have developed a sensitive test that allows detection of as low as two copies of BVDV in a single embryo. This method will allow systematic risk assessment for BVDV transmission during in vitro embryo production via IVF or SCNT procedures.


pmid: 17462725
title: Risk assessment of transmission of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in abattoir-derived in vitro produced embryos
abstract: Bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a pathogen of the bovine reproductive system causing reduced conception rates, abortions and persistently infected calves. Most if not all strains of BVDV are transmissible by natural mating and AI. For international trade, it is recommended that in vitro fertilized embryos be washed according to the IETS Manual. However, BVDV may not be entirely washed out, resulting in possible transmission risks to recipients. Donor cows, donor bulls and biological agents are all possible sources of contamination. The process for producing in vitro produced (IVP) embryos is complex and non-standard, and some procedures can contribute to spread of BVDV to uninfected embryos. The structure of the zone pellucida (ZP) of IVP embryos permits adherence of BVDV to the ZP. To estimate the risk of producing infected recipients and persistently infected calves from abattoir-derived IVP embryos, a quantitative risk assessment model using Microsoft Excel and Palisade @Risk was developed. Assumptions simplified some of the complexities of the IVP process. Uncertainties due to incomplete or variable data were addressed by incorporating probability distributions in the model. Model variables included: disease prevalence; the number of donor cows slaughtered for ovaries; the number of oocytes collected, selected and cultured; the BVDV status of ovaries, semen, biological compounds and its behavior in the IVP embryo process. The model used the Monte Carlo method to simulate the IVP process. When co-culture cells derived from donor cows of unknown health status were used for in vitro culture (IVC), the probability of a recipient cow at risk of infection to BVDV per oocyte selected for IVP processing averaged 0.0006. However, when co-culture free from BVDV was used, the probability was 1.2 x 10(-5). Thus, for safe international trade in bovine IVP embryos (i.e. negligible risks of transmission of BVDV), co-culture cells, if used during IVC for producing IVP embryos, should be disease-free.


pmid: 31836380
title: A novel intracellularly expressed NS5B-specific nanobody suppresses bovine viral diarrhea virus replication
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection causes significant economic losses to the cattle industry worldwide and still represents a huge pressure on agricultural production. Thus, the development of novel anti-BVDV strategies are urgently needed. The nonstructural protein 5 (NS5B) of BVDV is essential for viral replication. Further, the camel single-domain antibody (nanobody) represents a promising antiviral approach with the advantages of small size, stable structure, high specificity and solubility, and the recognition of specific epitopes. However, no NS5B-specific nanobodies against BVDV have been reported. In this study, NS5B-specific nanobodies were isolated from a phage display library of variable domains of Camellidae heavy chain-only antibodies (VHHs). Further, an MDBK cell line stably expressing Nb1 was established to explore antiviral activity. Results showed that Nb1 could markedly suppress BVDV replication and interact with the BVDV NS5B protein. This suggests that nanobodies have potential for the development of novel antiviral drugs against BVDV infection.


pmid: 17803113
title: Immunohistochemical diagnosis of persistent infection with Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) on skin biopsies
abstract: Detection of persistent infection with BovineViral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) is essential for both epidemiological and clinical reasons. In addition to the classical virological methods such as virus isolation in tissue culture, ELISA and RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry of skin biopsies has become a useful and reliable tool. Assuming that the presence of BVDV antigen in skin structures is restricted to persistent infection, this method could differentiate from transient infection. In order to answer this question, 6 calves were experimentally infected orally with a non-cytopathic genotype 1 BVDV strain belonging to the subtype k.The calves developed fever, mucopurulent nasal discharge, coughing and leucopenia with relative lymphopenia. Immunohistochemistry of skin biopsies taken daily up to day 13-post infection did not reveal any evidence of BVDV infection. BVDV was, however, isolated from blood samples on cell cultures. Anti-NS3-antibody-ELISA and serum neutralization tests showed that all six calves seroconverted. We conclude that in acute BVDV infections, with genotype 1 and the subtypes found in Switzerland (b, e, h and k) viral antigen is not found in epidermal structures of the skin. In contrast, persistently infected animals test positive for BVD viral antigen by immunohistochemistry of the skin.


pmid: 31328411
title: Epidemiological factors and mitigation measures influencing production losses in cattle due to bovine viral diarrhoea virus infection: A meta-analysis
abstract: Infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is associated with a loss in productivity in cattle farms. Determining which factors influence monetary losses due to BVDV could facilitate the implementation of mitigation measures to reduce the burden of BVDV. Mixed-effect meta-analysis models were performed to estimate the extent to which the costs of mean annual BVDV production losses per animal may be influenced by epidemiological factors such as BVDV introduction risk, initial prevalence, viral circulation intensity and circulation duration (trial 1). Additionally, changes in mean annual BVDV production losses per animal due to specific mitigation measures (i.e., biosecurity, vaccination, testing and culling, cattle introduction or contact with neighbouring cattle herds) were analysed (trial 2). In total, 19 studies were included in the meta-analysis to assess mean annual BVDV production losses. The mean annual direct losses were determined to be €42.14 per animal (trial 1). The multivariate meta-regression showed that four of the previously mentioned epidemiological factors significantly influenced the mean annual BVDV production losses per animal. Indeed, the per animal costs increased to €67.19 when these four factors (trial 1) were considered as "high or moderate" compared to "low". The meta-regression analysis revealed that implementation of vaccination and biosecurity measures were associated with an 8%-12% and 28%-29% decrease in BVDV production losses on average, respectively, when simulated herds were compared with or without such mitigation measures (trial 2). This reduction of mean annual BVDV production losses per animal due to mitigation measures was partially counteracted when farmers brought new cattle on to farm or allowed contact with neighbouring cattle herds. The influencing mitigation factors presented here could help to guide farmers in their decision to implement mitigation strategies for the control of BVDV at farm level.


pmid: 16214248
title: Characteristics in the epidemiology of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) of relevance to control
abstract: An understanding of the driving forces of BVDV transmission can be gained by considering the reproductive rate, between individuals and between herds. The former determines the prospects for eliminating the infection from herds, and the latter is the key to persistence at the population level. In this paper, the relation between these two characteristics, their underlying parameters and measures and priorities for BVDV control are discussed. A general model for BVDV control is outlined, with bio-security, virus elimination and monitoring as three necessary consecutive elements, and with immunization as an optional step. A distinction is made between systematic and non-systematic approaches to BVDV control (where the former refers to a monitored and goal-oriented reduction in the incidence and prevalence of BVDV infection and the latter to where measures are implemented on a herd-to-herd decision basis and without systematic monitoring in place). Predictors of progress for systematic control approaches in general are discussed in terms of the abilities: to prevent new infections, to rapidly detect new cases of infection, to take action in infected herds and to gain acceptance by stakeholders. We conclude that an understanding not only of the biology, but also of the social factors - human behavior, the motives that makes stakeholders follow advice and the cultural differences in this respect - are important factors in forming recommendations on alternative strategies for BVDV control.


pmid: 15062476
title: Immunohistochemistry used as a screening method for persistent bovine viral diarrhea virus infection
abstract: Cattle persistently infected (PI) with bovine viral diarrhea virus(BVDV) are a major source of infection to herds. To successfully control BVDV, it is necessary to identify and cull those cattle PI with BVDV. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) is a useful tool for sensitive and specific detection of BVDV antigens in infected cattle. Skin of cattle PI with BVDV is one of the tissues where BVDV can be consistently identified by IHC and is readily accessible for sampling. Use of IHC on skin biopsies (in the form of ear notches)as a method to identify cattle PI with BVDV has resulted in a reliable, affordable technique for mass testing of cattle at an early age without maternal antibody interference. The ability to test large numbers of cattle to identify those Pl with BVDV will enable implementation of programs for control and eventual eradication of BVDV.


pmid: 15369663
title: Genetic diversity of international bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) isolates: identification of a new BVDV-1 genetic group
abstract: In the last decade, several studies were performed to characterise bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) isolates and define genetic groups by genotyping. Much data is now available from GenBank, predominantly sequences from the 5' untranslated region (5'-UTR). In order to find out whether genetic grouping of isolates from different countries could be harmonised, 22 new isolates from five countries were analysed in combination with published sequences. Eighteen of these isolates were typed as BVDV genotype 1 (BVDV-1), and one isolate from Argentina and three isolates from Brazil were typed as BVDV-2. BVDV-1 isolates were clustered into five previously defined genetic groups: BVDV-1a, b, d, e and f. Two isolates from Finland and one from Egypt formed a group which was tentatively labelled as BVDV-1j, since statistical support was low. By using a fragment of the Npro gene for typing, we found that these isolates fall into the same group as a deer strain, and are statistically significant. Some Swiss BVDV strains taken from GenBank were found in a new genetic group which was designated as BVDV-1k. The BVDV-2 isolates included in this study seemed to fall into two genetic groups.


pmid: 29087274
title: Carbon monoxide and biliverdin suppress bovine viral diarrhoea virus replication
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) causes significant economic losses to the cattle industry worldwide. Previously, we demonstrated that heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) can inhibit BVDV replication via an unknown molecular mechanism. To elucidate the mechanism involved, we assess whether the HO-1 downstream metabolites carbon monoxide (CO), biliverdin (BV) and iron affect BVDV replication. We treated Madin-Darby bovine kidney (MDBK) cells with an exogenous CO donor, CORM-2. We found that CORM-2 but not its inactive form (iCORM-2) inhibited BVDV replication in a dose-dependent and time duration-dependent manner, suggesting a CO-specific mediation of the CORM-2 antiviral effect. Direct incubation of BVDV with high-dose CORM-2 reduced virus titres, suggesting that CORM-2 attenuates BVDV growth by both physically inactivating virus particles in the extracellular environment and affecting intracellular BVDV replication, but mainly via an intracellular mechanism. Exogenous BV treatment, both post-infection and co-incubation with BVDV, inhibited BVDV replication in a dose-dependent manner, indicating that BV has potent antiviral activity against BVDV. Direct incubation of BVDV with BV had no significant effect on virus titres, indicating that BV is not virucidal and attenuates BVDV growth by affecting intracellular BVDV replication. Furthermore, BV was found to affect BVDV penetration but not attachment. However, increased iron via addition of FeCl3 did not interfere with BVDV replication. Collectively, the results of the present study demonstrate that the HO-1 metabolites BV and CO, but not iron, inhibit BVDV replication. These findings not only provide new insights into the molecular mechanism of HO-1 inhibition of BVDV replication but also suggest potential new control measures for future BVDV infection.


pmid: 1949588
title: Effect of infection by bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in vitro on interleukin-1 activity of bovine monocytes
abstract: The effect of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in vitro on the interleukin-1 (IL-1) activity of bovine monocytes was studied. Supernatants from BVDV-infected monocytes suppressed IL-1-stimulated proliferation of mouse thymocytes and masked lipopolysaccharide-stimulated IL-1 activity of bovine monocytes in the mouse comitogen thymocyte assay. Suppression of mouse thymocyte proliferation was restored by the addition of IL-1. IL-1 inhibitory activity was induced both by the prototype variants BVDV/NADL cytopathic and BVDV/NY-1 noncytopathic and by BVDV variants isolated from persistently infected cattle. Suppressed IL-1 activity was also found in supernatants from monocytes from persistently infected cattle following infection with BVDV in vitro. No differences in levels of IL-1 mRNA synthesis were detected between BVDV-infected and uninfected monocytes by RNA-cDNA hybridization. These results suggest that infection of bovine monocytes with BVDV results in the production and/or activation of a soluble inhibitor of IL-1 activity.


pmid: 28400145
title: Vaccination of cattle against bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is responsible for significant losses to the cattle industry. Currently, modified-live viral (MLV) and inactivated viral vaccines are available against BVDV, often in combination with other viral and bacterial antigens. Inactivated and MLV vaccines provide cattle producers and veterinarians safe and efficacious options for herd immunization to limit disease associated with BVDV infection. Vaccination of young cattle against BVDV is motivated by prevention of clinical disease and limiting viral spread to susceptible animals. For reproductive-age cattle, vaccination to prevent viremia and birth of persistently infected offspring is considered more important, while also more difficult to achieve than prevention of clinical disease. Recent advances have been made in the understanding of BVDV vaccine efficacy. In terms of preventing clinical disease, current BVDV vaccines have been demonstrated to have a rapid onset of immunity and MLV vaccines can be effectively utilized in calves possessing maternal immunity. For reproductive protection, more recent studies using multivalent MLV vaccines have demonstrated consistent fetal protection rates in the range of 85-100% in experimental studies. Proper timing and administration of BVDV vaccines can be utilized to maximize vaccine efficacy to provide an important contribution to reducing risks associated with BVDV infection. With improvements in vaccine formulations and increased understanding of the protective immune response following vaccination, control of BVDV through vaccination can be enhanced.


pmid: 25828555
title: Modelling the spread of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in a beef cattle herd and its impact on herd productivity
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a common pathogen of cattle herds that causes economic losses due to reproductive disorders in breeding cattle and increased morbidity and mortality amongst infected calves. Our objective was to evaluate the impact of BVDV spread on the productivity of a beef cow-calf herd using a stochastic model in discrete time that accounted for (1) the difference in transmission rates when animals are housed indoors versus grazing on pasture, (2) the external risk of disease introductions through fenceline contact with neighboring herds and the purchase of infected cattle, and (3) the risk of individual pregnant cattle generating persistently infected (PI) calves based on their stage in gestation. The model predicted the highest losses from BVDV during the first 3 years after disease was introduced into a naive herd. During the endemic phase, the impact of BVDV on the yearly herd productivity was much lower due to herd immunity. However, cumulative losses over 10 years in an endemic situation greatly surpassed the losses that occurred during the acute phase. A sensitivity analysis of key model parameters revealed that herd size, the duration of breeding, grazing, and selling periods, renewal rate of breeding females, and the level of numerical productivity expected by the farmer had a significant influence on the predicted losses. This model provides a valuable framework for evaluating the impact of BVDV and the efficacy of different control strategies in beef cow-calf herds.


pmid: 18578943
title: Alteration in ultrastructural morphology of bovine embryos following subzonal microinjection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)
abstract: The aim of the present study was to evaluate the development and ultrastructure of preimplantation bovine embryos that were exposed to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in vitro. The embryos were recovered from superovulated and fertilized Holstein-Friesian donor cows on day 6 of the estrous cycle. Compact morulae were microinjected with 20 pl of BVDV suspension (10(5.16) TCID(50)/ml viral stock diluted 1:4) under the zona pellucida (ZP), then washed in SOF medium and cultured for 24-48 h. Embryos were evaluated for developmental stages and then processed immunocytochemically for the presence of viral particles, using fluorescent anti-BVDV-FITC conjugate. Ultrastructure of cellular organelles was analysed by transmission electron microscopy (TEM).After microinjection of BVDV under the ZP, significantly more (p<0.001) embryos (83.33%) were arrested at the morula stage compared with the intact control (30.33%). Immunocytochemical analysis localized the BVDV-FITC signal inside the microinjected embryos. TEM revealed: (i) the presence of virus-like particles in the dilated endoplasmic reticulum and in cytoplasmic vacuoles of the trophoblast and embryoblast cells; (ii) the loss of microarchitecture: and (iii) abnormal disintegrated nuclei, which lacked reticular structure and the heterochromatin area. In all, the embryo nuclear structure was altered and the microarchitecture of the nucleolus had disappeared when compared with the nuclei from control embryos. Dilatation of the intercellular space and the loss of the intercellular gap junctions were often observed in bovine BVDV-exposed embryos. These findings provide evidence for the adverse effect of BVDV virus on the development of bovine embryos, which is related to irreversible changes in the ultrastructure of cell organelles.


pmid: 31954315
title: Comparative humoral immune response against cytopathic or non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus infection
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection causes immune dysfunction. The current study investigated the effect of cytopathic (cp) or noncytopathic (ncp) strains of BVDV on immunomodulation by the levels of total serum immunoglobulin G (IgG), the IgG1, IgG2, BVDV neutralizing antibodies and total white blood cell (WBC) count. Twenty (20) BVDV seronegative dairy calves (5-6 months old) were divided in two groups of ten. The animals were infected with either a cp or ncp virus isolated from the same animal (ncp BVDV1b-TGAN or cp BVDV1b-TGAC). One group of 10 was infected with ncp TGAN while the other group of 10 was infected with cp TGAC. Calves infected with cp BVDV had a significant decrease in total IgG as well as IgG1 concentration at 7 days post infection (DPI) that recovered by 21 DPI (total IgG) and 35 DPI (IgG1), respectively. There was no effect of ncp BVDV infection on total IgG concentration in the first 7 days of infection (DOI); however, IgG1 concentration was significantly reduced and IgG2 concentration was significantly increased at 7 DOI. At 35 DPI, ncp TGAN-infected calves had significantly higher total IgG, IgG1 as well as IgG2 compared to cp TGAC-infected calves. Ncp BVDV induced higher BVDV homologous and heterologous neutralizing antibodies compared to the cp BVDV strain. Calves infected with ncp BVDV had significantly reduced WBC counts at 7 DPI that recovered by 14 DPI. Overall, these findings indicate that humoral immunosuppression occurs early following BVDV infection with the largest effect on IgG1 levels.


pmid: 11042411
title: Clinical, pathological and antigenic aspects of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type 2 isolates identified in Brazil
abstract: Nucleotide sequencing and phylogenetic analysis of Brazilian bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) field isolates identified four viruses belonging to the genotype 2. Comparison of 5' UTR sequences from these isolates to those of North American BVDV type 2 revealed genomic variations that correlated with the geographic origins of the isolates. Two of the Brazilian type 2 viruses were isolated from clinical cases of gastroenteric/respiratory disease and two were isolated from healthy bovine fetuses. The clinical cases affected young animals (8- and 18-months-old) and were characterized by diarrhea, respiratory signs, extensive oral and digestive tract erosions, conjunctival and vulvar congestion, occasional digestive bleeding and vulvar and heart petechial hemorrhage. Antigenic analysis of these isolates with a panel of 10 monoclonal antibodies revealed marked antigenic differences in the major envelope glycoprotein, gp53/E2, compared to standard laboratory and vaccine BVDV strains. In addition, virus-specific antisera raised to Brazilian BVDV type 2 viruses displayed very low serological cross-reactivity with standard BVDV type 1 strains. Differences up to 64-fold in cross-neutralization titers were observed between BVDV type 1 and Brazilian BVDV type 2 isolates. The identification of BVDV type 2 among Brazilian cattle may have important implications for epidemiological studies, diagnostic and immunization strategies. Furthermore, the low neutralizing activity of BVDV type 1 antisera against the recently identified Brazilian BVDV type 2 isolates raises the question about the degree of protection conferred by BVDV vaccines, most of them based on a single type 1 strain.


pmid: 9210948
title: Determination of level of antibodies to bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in bulk tank milk as a tool in the diagnosis and prophylaxis of BVDV infections in dairy herds
abstract: An indirect ELISA has been evaluated for determination of the level of antibodies to BVDV in individual milk samples and recently in bulk tank milk from dairy herds. As part of an epidemiological study, bulk milk and individual milk samples from all cows in 15 dairy herds were analysed for antibodies to BVDV two times one year apart. There was an excellent correlation between the level of antibodies in the bulk tank milk and the prevalence of BVDV antibody positive cows. The mean prevalence of BVDV antibody positive cows in the 15 dairy herds was 45.5% (188/413) at the first sampling and 46.2% (191/413) one year later. Seven of the herds had no, or only a low number of antibody positive cows. In contrast, between 52 to 100% of the cows in seven other herds were antibody positive to BVDV. In the 15th herd all cows without antibodies at the first sampling were antibody positive to BVDV one year later, indicating a recently introduced BVDV infection in this herd. Analysis of bulk milk samples for BVDV antibodies is now routinely used in Sweden as a tool in diagnosis and prophylaxis of BVDV infections in dairy herds. The importance and advantages of this diagnostic technique, that has made it possible to establish BVDV-free dairy herds, is discussed.


pmid: 18295808
title: Outbreak of acute bovine viral diarrhea in Brazilian beef cattle: clinicopathological findings and molecular characterization of a wild-type BVDV strain subtype 1b
abstract: When first described in 1946, bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) was characterized as an acute transmissible disease associated with severe leucopenia, high fever, depression, diarrhea, gastrointestinal erosions, and hemorrhages. Recently the severe acute form has been related only to some hypervirulent BVDV-2 strains. This article reports the detection of BVDV-1b associated with an acute and fatal outbreak of BVD in a Brazilian beef cattle herd. Depression, anorexia, watery diarrhea, sialorrhea, and weakness were observed in six steers. One of these animals was evaluated for laboratorial, clinical, and pathological alterations. Laboratory findings were non-specific; clinically, the animal was weak, with dehydration and erosive oral lesions. Pathological alterations were predominant at the tongue, esophagus, and rumen. A RT-PCR assay using primers to partially amplify the 5' untranslated region (5'UTR) of the BVDV genome was performed and identified BVDV in all clinical samples analyzed. Phylogenetic analysis of BVDV derived from lymph node revealed that this strain was clustered within the BVDV subtype 1b. This differentiating was only possible to be performed by molecular characterization since both clinical presentation and pathologic findings were similar to BVDV-2 infection.


pmid: 32976968
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus compromises Neutrophil's functions in strain dependent manner
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection is a major problem that results in economically important diseases of the cattle industry worldwide. The two major consequences of this disease are persistent infection and immune dysfunction. A number of studies have been done to determine the underline mechanisms of BVDV-induced immune dysfunction, in particular targeting antigen-presenting cells, T- and B- cells and cytokine gene expression. However, little research has focused Eon the effect of BVDV on neutrophils. Neutrophils are one of the predominant leukocytes circulating in blood and are considered the first line of defense in the innate immune system along with macrophages. Neutrophils not only eliminate the invading bacteria but also activate innate as well as adaptive immune responses. Therefore, compromised neutrophil function would affect both arms of immune system and caused immune suppression. In the current study, we used virus strains from both BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 species. Including a highly virulent non-cytopathic type 2a BVDV (ncp BVDV2a-1373), moderately virulent non-cytopathic type 2a (ncp BVDV2a 28508-5), and a pair of non-cytopathic type 1b BVDV (ncp BVDV1b TGAN) and cytopathic type 1b BVDV (cp BVDV1b TGAC) strain isolated from a case of mucosal disease. The highly virulent ncp BVDV2a-1373 significantly increased neutrophil apoptosis. However, none of the other BVDV strains affected neutrophil viability. All BVDV strains used significantly reduced CD18 and L-selectin expression on neutrophils as well as their oxidative burst and neutrophil extracellular traps (NET) activity. Cp BVDV significantly reduced neutrophil's phagocytic activity but ncp BVDV did not have any effect on it. On the other hand, ncp BVDV significantly increased neutrophil's CD14 expression and chemotactic activity while cp BVDV did not show any effect either on neutrophil's CD14 expression or on chemotactic activity. In conclusion, BVDV affected neutrophils variability and functional activity in strain dependent manner. Results of the current study will further help in understanding the pathophysiology of different BVDV strains.


pmid: 16283916
title: Changes in peripheral blood leucocyte counts and subpopulations after experimental infection with BVDV and/or Mannheimia haemolytica
abstract: Leucocyte counts and subpopulations were studied in peripheral blood from calves experimentally infected in the respiratory tract with either bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) or Mannheimia haemolytica (Mh), or with a combination of both agents (BVDV/Mh). A non-inoculated control group was included. Peripheral blood samples were obtained for total leucocyte counts, and for neutrophil, lymphocyte and monocyte counts. The numbers of blood lymphocytes expressing the surface antigens CD4, CD8, WC1, B and IL-2R were analysed using flow cytometry. The results showed that BVDV inoculation induced a significant decrease in total leucocyte counts and in neutrophil and lymphocyte numbers, while Mh inoculation induced significant increases in total leucocyte counts and neutrophils, while the lymphocyte count decreased. In the BVDV/Mh group, the total leucocyte count and the lymphocyte numbers decreased significantly. In this group, the lymphocyte numbers remained on a very low level throughout the rest of the study. The numbers of CD4+, CD8+ and WC1+ lymphocytes decreased significantly compared with before inoculations mainly in the BVDV and BVDV/Mh groups. The drops were most pronounced in the BVDV/Mh group. The numbers of B+ lymphocytes and IL-2R+ cells did not change significantly.


pmid: 34578391
title: Gypenoside Inhibits Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Replication by Interfering with Viral Attachment and Internalization and Activating Apoptosis of Infected Cells
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) causes a severe threat to the cattle industry due to ineffective control measures. Gypenoside is the primary component of Gynostemma pentaphyllum, which has potential medicinal value and has been widely applied as a food additive and herbal supplement. However, little is known about the antiviral effects of gypenoside. The present study aimed to explore the antiviral activities of gypenoside against BVDV infection. The inhibitory activity of gypenoside against BVDV was assessed by using virus titration and performing Western blotting, quantitative reverse transcription PCR (RT-qPCR), and immunofluorescence assays in MDBK cells. We found that gypenoside exhibited high anti-BVDV activity by interfering with the viral attachment to and internalization in cells. The study showed that BVDV infection inhibits apoptosis of infected cells from escaping the innate defense of host cells. Our data further demonstrated that gypenoside inhibited BVDV infection by electively activating the apoptosis of BVDV-infected cells for execution, as evidenced by the regulation of the expression of the apoptosis-related protein, promotion of caspase-3 activation, and display of positive TUNEL staining; no toxicity was observed in non-infected cells. Collectively, the data identified that gypenoside exerts an anti-BVDV-infection role by inhibiting viral attachment and internalization and selectively purging virally infected cells. Therefore, our study will contribute to the development of a novel prophylactic and therapeutic strategy against BVDV infection.


pmid: 12735344
title: Distribution of viral antigen and development of lesions after experimental infection of calves with a BVDV 2 strain of low virulence
abstract: To examine the virus-host interaction in subclinical bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections, the spread of a BVDV 2 strain of low virulence to different organs and the development of lesions were investigated. Eight colostrum-deprived, clinically healthy, 2-3-month-old calves were intranasally inoculated with 10(6) tissue culture infective dose of the naturally occurring BVDV 2 strain 28508-5 of low virulence, and 2 served as controls. Two calves each were euthanized at days 3, 6, 9, and 13 postinoculation (pi). Representative tissues were processed for histology and immunohistology. Signs of overt clinical disease were absent. However, a mild temperature elevation at days 7 or 8 pi and a moderate decrease of circulating lymphocytes occurred in all inoculated calves. The BVDV antigen was detected at day 3 pi in several lymphoid tissues. At day 6 pi, BVDV antigen was found widespread in lymphoid tissues and multifocally in intestinal epithelial cells but was associated with no or subtle lesions only. At day 9 pi, much less BVDV antigen was detectable, but there was severe depletion of lymphoid tissues. At day 13 pi, BVDV antigen had been cleared from most lymphoid tissues that were at variable phases of depletion and recovery. In conclusion, the BVDV strain of low virulence spread to lymphoid tissues and intestinal epithelial cells but was rapidly eliminated. Transient depletion of lymphoid tissues was followed by recovery.


pmid: 32961168
title: Infection with Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus in Cattle in Southern Papua, Indonesia
abstract: The aim of this preliminary study was to determine the prevalence of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) and its association with reproductive problems in cattle in Timika, Southern Papua, Indonesia, an emerging area for beef production. Serum from 77 beef cattle was collected from four villages and tested, using both antibody and antigen ELISA kits for BVDV. Data of the villages of origin, age, breed, sex and the number of parities of the cattle were collected. The pregnancy status of the cattle was determined by rectal examination. Results showed that the prevalence of BVDV antibody in individual cattle in Timika was 11.7% (CI: 6.1 - 20.0%), while at the farm level the antibody prevalence was 18.4% (CI: 8.9 - 33.7%).). Seropositivity for BVDV increased with age (P=0.02), from 0% (CI: 0 - 37.2%) in less than two-years old to 28.6% (CI: 11.3 - 55.0%) in cattle older than eight years of age. BVDV antibody was 2.9 times more prevalent in non-pregnant cows than in antibody negative cows (CI: 1.02 - 8.14, P=0.04). BVD antigen was not detected in the present study. This study reported for the first time, evidence of infection with BVDV in cattle in Papua and indicated that BVDV infection may be associated with infertility.


pmid: 16213611
title: Persistent BVDV infection in mousedeer infects calves. Do we know the reservoirs for BVDV?
abstract: Bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV)-1f was isolated from a Lesser Malayan Mousedeer in Copenhagen Zoo during a routine screening. Analysis of animals related to the Copenhagen mousedeer revealed that its mother and all siblings were virus positive, a pattern also seen for persistently infected (PI) cattle. BVDV could be transmitted from the PI mousedeer to a calf after indirect contact. The host spectrum for BVDV seems to be even wider than expected; the implications for BVDV control are discussed.


pmid: 16902856
title: Antiviral effect of artemisinin from Artemisia annua against a model member of the Flaviviridae family, the bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV)
abstract: The antiviral activity versus flaviviruses of artemisinin, a safe drug obtained from Artemisia annua and commonly used to treat malaria, has been investigated using as an IN VITRO model bovine epithelial cells from embryonic trachea (EBTr) infected with the cytopathic strain Oregon C24V, of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), which is a member of the Flaviviridae family. Antiviral activity was estimated by the degree of protection against the cytopathic effect of BVDV on host cells and by the reduction in BVDV-RNA release to the culture medium. To induce an intermediate cytopathic effect in non-treated cells, EBTr cells were first exposed to BVDV for 48 h and then incubated with virus-free medium for 72 h. Ribavirin and artemisinin (up to 100 microM) induced no toxicity in host cells, whereas a slight degree of toxicity was observed for IFN-alpha at concentrations above 10 U/mL up to 100 U/mL. Treatment of infected cells with IFN-alpha, ribavirin and artemisinin markedly reduced BVDV-induced cell death. A combination of these drugs resulted in an additive protective effect. These drugs induced a significant reduction in the production/release of BVDV virions by infected EBTr cells; there was also an additive effect when combinations of them were assayed. These results suggest a potential usefulness of artemisinin in combination with current pharmacological therapy for the treatment of human and veterinary infections by flaviviruses.


pmid: 17458779
title: Effect of cantharidin, cephalotaxine and homoharringtonine on "in vitro" models of hepatitis B virus (HBV) and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) replication
abstract: The effect as antiviral agents versus viral hepatitis B and C of three compounds purified from natural products commonly used as remedies in traditional Chinese medicine, cantharidin, cephalotaxine and homoharingtonine, was investigated. To assess the activity of these compounds against flavivirus, we used bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) as a surrogate for hepatitis C virus (HCV). Anti-BVDV activity was determined by reduction in BVDV-RNA production and protection of infected embryonic bovine trachea (EBTr) cells against the cytopathic effect of BVDV. The effect versus hepatitis B virus (HBV) was investigated by measuring HBsAg and HBV-DNA release from hepatoblastoma HepG2 2.2.15 cells infected with HBV. As positive control we used the standard anti-HBV and anti-HCV drugs, lamivudine and ribavirin, respectively. Up to 100 microM lamivudine and ribavirin did not induce cell toxicity, whereas they induced dose-dependent anti-HBV and anti-BVDV effects, respectively. In the same range, cantharidin, cephalotaxine and homoharringtonine induced toxicity in EBTr cells and had no protective effect against BVDV. In contrast, they were able to inhibit HBV production at concentrations 10- to 100-fold lower than those inducing cell toxicity, which suggests that they are useless for the treatment of infection by flaviviruses, but potentially useful in combined therapy against hepatitis B.


pmid: 34671657
title: Benefit of Bovine Viral Diarrhoea (BVD) Eradication in Cattle on Pestivirus Seroprevalence in Sheep
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and Border disease virus (BDV) are closely related pestiviruses of cattle and sheep, respectively. Both viruses may be transmitted between either species, but control programs are restricted to BVDV in cattle. In 2008, a program to eradicate bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) in cattle was started in Switzerland. As vaccination is prohibited, the cattle population is now widely naïve to pestivirus infections. In a recent study, we determined that nearly 10% of cattle are positive for antibodies to BDV. Here, we show that despite this regular transmission of BDV from small ruminants to cattle, we could only identify 25 cattle that were persistently infected with BDV during the last 12 years of the eradication program. In addition, by determining the BVDV and BDV seroprevalence in sheep in Central Switzerland before and after the start of the eradication, we provide evidence that BVDV is transmitted from cattle to sheep, and that the BVDV seroprevalence in sheep significantly decreased after its eradication in cattle. While BDV remains endemic in sheep, the population thus profited at least partially from BVD eradication in cattle. Importantly, on a national level, BVD eradication does not appear to be generally derailed by the presence of pestiviruses in sheep. However, with every single virus-positive cow, it is necessary to consider small ruminants as a potential source of infection, resulting in costly but essential investigations in the final stages of the eradication program.


pmid: 8036482
title: [Bovine virus diarrhea/mucosal disease: a review]
abstract: Infections with the Bovine Viral Diarrhea/Mucosal Disease Virus (BVDV) are widespread and cause a variety of diseases including reproductive disorders, abortion and malformation, pneumoenteritis, thrombocytopenia and mucosal disease. Together with the closely related border disease virus of sheep (BDV) and European Swine fever virus (CSFV), also referred to as Hog Cholera virus, BVDV is now classified in the genus pestivirus of the Flaviviridae family. The BVDV exists in two biotypes, noncytopathic and cytopathic, the latter differing in structural proteins from the noncytopathic biotypes. In virus-free animals infection is transient and mostly subclinical or mild but may also lead to an array of diverse symptoms such as pneumoenteritis (often in combination with other microorganisms). Infection of the developing fetus early in gestation with a noncytopathic biotype of BVDV may result in persistent infection and birth of apparently healthy calves. Such calves may later in their lives develop Mucosal Disease, a lethal course of infection associated with a mutation to the cytopathic biotype or superinfection with a cytopathic BVDV antigenically similar to the non-cytopathic virus already present in these animals. Diagnosis of infections with BVDV is based on the clinical symptoms and demonstration of virus. Paired serum samples allow the detection of seroconversion in acute infections while persistently infected animals are immunotolerant and generally lack antiviral antibody. Although generally found in their respective host species, pestiviruses of cattle, sheep and pigs are capable of crossing the species barrier into the other species. The existence of pestiviruses in wild ruminants and boars may complicate control strategies that are aimed at removing virus carriers and the control of animal movements.


pmid: 18760643
title: Bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BHV-1) and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infections in dairy herds: self clearance and the detection of seroconversions against a new atypical pestivirus
abstract: The epidemiology of bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BHV-1) and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was studied in a population of small dairy herds that had not been vaccinated. Bulk tank milk samples of 186 herds in Thailand were collected four times between 2002 and 2004. Serum samples from individual animals in 11 herds were also taken on three occasions. The prevalence of BHV-1 in the 186 herds was 61% in 2002, decreasing to 48% in 2004 and for BVDV was 91% in 2002, decreasing to 72% in 2004. A BVDV antigen-positive calf was found in one of the 11 herds, and animals in this herd and three other herds seroconverted to a recently described atypical BVDV strain (HoBi). This study showed a significantly decreasing prevalence for both BHV-1 and BVDV due to a self-clearance process. Further studies are needed to find out how the atypical BVDV strain entered the cattle population.


pmid: 9850989
title: Detection of antibodies to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and characterization of genomes of BVDV from Brazil
abstract: An ELISA for the detection of antibodies to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was developed based on antigens derived from a genotype I BVDV strain isolated in Switzerland. Using monoclonal antibodies we showed that this antigen contained the conserved non-structural protein NS3 whereas it essentially lacked the more strain-specific E2 surface glycoprotein. This ELISA has a sensitivity of 97.5% and a specificity of 99.2% as compared to the serum neutralization test (SNT). Preliminary experiments showed that this ELISA reliably detects antibodies to BVDV strains circulating in Brazil. Serum samples obtained from 430 adult cattle on 19 farms of the State of Rio Grande do Sul (Brazil) and one farm from Corrientes (Argentina) were tested for antibodies by means of this ELISA. We found antibodies in 56% +/- 15.1% of the cattle sera tested, which indicates that, in Brazil, the prevalence of infection with BVDV is similar to that found in Europe and the USA. Our sequence analysis of two BVDV isolates showed that BVDV of both genotypes I and II circulate in Brazil.


pmid: 30581873
title: Genetic Diversity of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Infection in Goats in Southwestern China
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) affects cows, pigs, sheep, goats, and other ruminants, as well as some wild animals. BVDV causes considerable economic losses every year and many countries have developed programs aimed at the eradication of this disease. The genetic diversity of BVDV in diseased goats has never been described in southwestern China. Thus, in this study, we applied antigen-capture ELISA and RT-PCR to survey the infection rate of BVDV in diseased goats in this region. Our results demonstrated that the average BVDV infection rate in goats was 17.51%, with all positive samples indicating infection by BVDV-1 and not BVDV-2, BVDV-3, or Border disease virus. The molecular characteristics of the 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) of BVDV-1 were recognized as belonging predominantly to the BVDV-1a, 1b, 1c, 1m, and 1p subtypes. BVDV-1b and 1m were the most abundant subtypes identified in this region, similar to the BVDV epidemics in cattle in other regions of China. This is the first study that describes the genetic characterization of BVDV in sick goats from southwestern China and is important for future studies and control programs.


pmid: 11042406
title: Cellular insertions in the NS2-3 genome region of cytopathic bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) isolates
abstract: When compared to noncytopathic (ncp) bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), some cytopathic (cp) BVDV contain additional sequences in the NS2-3 genomic region. One of these insertions, which is 270 nucleotides long and of host origin (cINS), was first described for strain NADL. To find out how frequently this type of insertion occurs in other cp BVDV, 32 cp BVDV field isolates and the BVDV reference cp strain Indiana were screened using RT-PCR which detected cINS in NADL. For most cp viruses an RT-PCR product of 402bp indicated the presence of NS2-3 genes without insertions. In addition, one or two DNA fragments, around 600-850bp in size, were amplified from the genomes of 13 cp viruses indicating the presence of insertions. Sequencing of the PCR products, i.e. 402bp DNA fragment (with no insertion) and longer fragments (with insertion) revealed the location of the insertions in the NS2-3 coding region of eight cp BVDV genomes. All of the insertions were confirmed to be of the cINS type and were located in a very similar position to that found previously in the NADL genome. They were in the same reading frame as the viral polypeptide and they encoded 90-140 amino acids. The 5' and 3' ends of the insertions were different in most of the cp isolates studied. Interestingly, a 14-amino-acid stretch at the 5'-end of the insertion in the cp 5569 isolate as well as 15 amino acids at the 3'-end of the insertion in the cp 5.19516 isolate were not homologous to the cINS sequence. No significant matches for these stretches were found in the EMBL and Swissprot databases.


pmid: 15550273
title: Inhibition of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) by mizoribine: synergistic effect of combination with interferon-alpha
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a well-characterized member of the Flaviviridae family. BVDV may be a surrogate model for human hepatitis C virus (HCV), since HCV does not replicate efficiently in cell cultures and animals. Mizoribine, a nucleoside analog clinically used as an immunosuppressant, was found to be active against the replication of BVDV in cell culture. We further investigated the combination of mizoribine and interferon (IFN)-alpha for antiviral activity and found that the combination synergistically inhibited BVDV replication in bovine kidney cells, as monitored by the inhibition of virus-induced cytopathicity. The combination of ribavirin and IFN-alpha was also synergistic in inhibiting BVDV replication. Treatment of infected cells with a combination of mizoribine and IFN-alpha at the concentrations, at which the respective compounds proved to be inactive, markedly reduced viral infectivity in culture supernatants. These results indicate that mizoribine in combination with IFN-alpha may have potential for the treatment of HCV infection.


pmid: 31809973
title: Origin and transmission of bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 in China revealed by phylodynamic analysis
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 (BVDV-1) is prevalent worldwide and causes significant economic loss in animal husbandry. Since its first report in the 1980s in China, several genotypes of BVDV-1 had been reported, but an in-depth phylogenetic analysis on the BVDV isolates from China is lacking. To investigate the molecular evolution and phylodynamics of BVDV-1 genotypes circulating in China, comprehensive phylogenetic and phylodynamic analyses were performed to reconstruct the origin and spatial-temporal distribution, and to trace main viral flows among different areas. BVDV-1 5'-UTR sequences from China and Mongolia were collected from Genbank, and the phylogeny was built using the maximum likelihood method. The Bayesian Skygrid was used to estimate the evolution and population dynamics of BVDV-1. Eight BVDV-1 genotypes were identified, of which 1b and 1 m are the main genotypes. The results indicated that BVDV-1 might be introduced in China in the 1960s, and after a long period of population growth, it gradually leveled off after 2010. The phylodynamic inference clearly shows a more steady BVDV-1 population growth, and the transmission of BVDV-1 may be confined to specific regions. This study will help to understand the molecular epidemiology and long-term evolutionary dynamics of BVDV-1 in China, therefore providing a scientific basis for the prevention and controlof the virus.


pmid: 29329686
title: Highlighting priority areas for bovine viral diarrhea control in Italy: A phylogeographic approach
abstract: The prevalence and genetic diversity of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in a geographic area are largely influenced by live animal trade and management practices. Despite control and eradication programs currently underway in several European countries, the risk of BVDV spread within and among countries is still present. BVDV-1 is the predominant type circulating in European cattle population. In this study, a phylogeographic analysis was applied to the BVDV-1 highest prevalent subtypes in Italy to reconstruct the origin and spatial-temporal distribution and to trace main viral flows between different locations to highlight priority areas for BVDV control. A comprehensive dataset of BVDV-1b (n = 173) and 1e (n = 172) 5' UTR sequences was analysed, including both novel and published sequences from Italy and from European countries bordering and/or with commercial cattle flows with Italy. A common phylogeographic pattern was observed for BVDV-1b and 1e subtypes: interspersion from multiple Italian areas and European countries was widespread until the end of the last century, whereas significant local clusters were observed starting from 2000. These findings support a continuous viral flow among different areas over long time scales with no evidence of significant geographical structure, while local transmission networks are limited to more recent years. Northern Italy has been confirmed as the area of origin of the main clades of both BVDV subtypes at national level, acting both as a crucial area for introduction and a maintenance source for other areas. Piedmont, Central and Southern Italian regions contributed to limited geographical distribution and local BVDV-1b and 1e persistence. On the whole, priority control measures for BVDV-1b and 1e in Italy should be focused on: i) implementation of BVDV systematic control in all Northern Italian regions to break the viral flow from larger to smaller animal populations; and ii) breaking the dynamics of infections in regions with self-maintenance of BVDV by voluntary control programs.


pmid: 9192006
title: A 50 kDa membrane protein from bovine kidney cells is a putative receptor for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)
abstract: A 50 kDa cell surface protein from MDBK cells has been identified as a putative receptor for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) by using a BVDV specific anti-idiotypic antibody (Anti-D89). This study delineates further characterization of the receptor protein. Protease treatment of cultured MDBK cells adversely affected the receptor thus abolishing the binding of anti-D89 to the cells. However, pretreatment of the cells with either phospholipases or glycosidases did not signficantly alter the extent of anti-D89 binding. Additionally, pretreatment of cell monolayers with proteases decreased BVDV attachment and replication in the cells. These results suggested that the receptor for BVDV is a protein in nature, and glycosylation and phosphorylation of the receptor protein may not play a direct role in BVDV attachment to cells. The BVDV receptor protein gradually regenerated on cells when they were maintained in culture following protease treatment. The purified 50 kDa receptor protein also significantly inhibited BVDV infection in a plaque reduction assay.


pmid: 9713819
title: Detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay
abstract: The reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was applied to detect bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) for the rapid diagnosis. The primers were selected from the p80 region of BVDV gene. The RT-PCR assay detected all of the 17 BVDV strains tested including cytopathogenic and non-cytopathogenic strains, while specific amplification was not observed from 17 bovine viruses other than BVDV. Detection limit of the assay was 10(1.5) TCID50/ml. Sera and organ samples were collected from four field bovine viral diarrhea-mucosal disease (BVD-MD) cases; mucosal disease, abortion, diarrhea and persistent infection. The RT-PCR assay detected BVDV from those samples more than conventional virus isolation method.


pmid: 28375824
title: Genetic diversity of bovine viral diarrhea virus in cattle from Mexico
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infects cattle populations worldwide, causing significant economic losses though its impact on animal health. Previous studies have reported the prevalence of BVDV species and subgenotypes in cattle from the United States and Canada. We investigated the genetic diversity of BVDV strains detected in bovine serum samples from 6 different Mexican regions. Sixty-two BVDV isolates from Mexico were genetically typed based on comparison of sequences from the 5' untranslated region (5'-UTR) of the viral genome. Phylogenetic reconstruction indicated that 60 of the samples belonged to the BVDV-1 genotype and 2 to the BVDV-2 genotype. Comparison of partial 5'-UTR sequences clustered 49 samples within BVDV-1c, 8 samples within BVDV-1a, 3 samples within BVDV-1b, and 2 samples clustered with the BVDV-2a subgenotypes. Our study, combined with information previously published on BVDV field strain diversity in the United States and Canada, benefits the development of effective detection assays, vaccines, and control programs for North America.


pmid: 9713819
title: Detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay
abstract: The reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was applied to detect bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) for the rapid diagnosis. The primers were selected from the p80 region of BVDV gene. The RT-PCR assay detected all of the 17 BVDV strains tested including cytopathogenic and non-cytopathogenic strains, while specific amplification was not observed from 17 bovine viruses other than BVDV. Detection limit of the assay was 10(1.5) TCID50/ml. Sera and organ samples were collected from four field bovine viral diarrhea-mucosal disease (BVD-MD) cases; mucosal disease, abortion, diarrhea and persistent infection. The RT-PCR assay detected BVDV from those samples more than conventional virus isolation method.


pmid: 28375824
title: Genetic diversity of bovine viral diarrhea virus in cattle from Mexico
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infects cattle populations worldwide, causing significant economic losses though its impact on animal health. Previous studies have reported the prevalence of BVDV species and subgenotypes in cattle from the United States and Canada. We investigated the genetic diversity of BVDV strains detected in bovine serum samples from 6 different Mexican regions. Sixty-two BVDV isolates from Mexico were genetically typed based on comparison of sequences from the 5' untranslated region (5'-UTR) of the viral genome. Phylogenetic reconstruction indicated that 60 of the samples belonged to the BVDV-1 genotype and 2 to the BVDV-2 genotype. Comparison of partial 5'-UTR sequences clustered 49 samples within BVDV-1c, 8 samples within BVDV-1a, 3 samples within BVDV-1b, and 2 samples clustered with the BVDV-2a subgenotypes. Our study, combined with information previously published on BVDV field strain diversity in the United States and Canada, benefits the development of effective detection assays, vaccines, and control programs for North America.


pmid: 10465327
title: Semiliki forest virus vector carrying the bovine viral diarrhea virus NS3 (p80) cDNA induced immune responses in mice and expressed BVDV protein in mammalian cells
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a primary pathogen responsible for bovine enteric, respiratory and reproductive failure. A genetic region is encoding the p80 (NS3) of BVDV as the most conserved protein among Pestiviruses. BVDV infection in cattle induces NS3 specific lymphocyte proliferation and humoral responses. To generate a DNA vaccine against BVDV, the gene for BVDV-NADL NS3 was cloned into an eukaryotic expression vector of Semiliki Forest virus (pSFV-1). Quadriceps muscles of BALB/c mice were injected with recombinant DNA generated statistically significant cytotoxic T-lymphocyte activity (CTL) and cell mediated immune (CMI) responses against cytopathic and noncytopathic BVDV. Whereas, the BVDV-NS3 did not generate neutralizing antibodies against BVDVin mice. pSFV-1-NS3 DNA was subjected to in vitro transcription into mRNA. The mRNA was transfected into baby hamster kidney cells (BHK-21) and Madin-Darby bovine kidney cells (MDBK). The recombinant cells were used in the detection of DNA antigen responses by immunological assays. This report establishes the ability of BVDV-NS3 DNA inoculation to induce a strong cellular immune responses in mice.


pmid: 9787488
title: An experimental study of a concurrent primary infection with bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in calves
abstract: Experimental infections with bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) were performed to study the effect of concurrent BRSV and BVDV infections. Twelve seronegative calves, in 3 groups, were inoculated on a single occasion with pure BRSV (group A), BRSV and noncytopathogenic BVDV (group B) or mock infected (group C). Mild respiratory symptoms were recorded 4 to 5 days post inoculation (dpi) in group A and group B calves. One calf in group A was severely affected and required medical treatment. In group B, fever (40.7-41.4 degrees C) was prominent 7 to 8 dpi. Only calves in group B were BVDV positive in purified lymphocytes at 2 to 14 dpi and showed increased serum interferon levels, with a peak at 4 dpi, indicating BVDV to be responsible for inducing the rise. BRSV was detected in lung lavage fluids up to 7 dpi for group A calves, compared to 11 dpi for group B and calves in this group also seroconverted later displaying lower BRSV titers. The time lag before an antibody response and the titers recorded in group B, indicated that the duration of BVDV infection in lymphocytes negatively influenced the capacity to mount a BRSV antibody response.


pmid: 17058505
title: Isolation of BVDV from bovine serum by EMEA/CVMP and 9 CFR: a comparison
abstract: Data derived from both experience and validation exercises on the behaviour and properties of BVDV is presented as applied to recovery of the virus from bovine serum used in the industrial production of animal biologicals. Licensed products both in the EU and the U.S. must use ingredients shown to be free of this agent and both regulatory agencies have published regulations governing this topic (EU: EMEA/CVMP and US: 9 CFR). The two systems differ in some specifics covering cell cultures used, timing of testing within the assays and the use of multiple approaches to the isolation of this virus. It was found that selected cell lines instead of primary cells could be used for BVDV isolation. FA tests, however, needed to be performed weekly for maximum sensitivity instead of once at the end of the test. BVDV interference assay (comparative titration) was found to be an unreliable test for the detection of non-CPE BVDV in cell culture. BVDV neutralization assays, while desirable from an informational standpoint, were determined to be unnecessary in serum that was to be adequately irradiated. Ultracentrifuge concentration of BVDV from serum was found to be a satisfactory method of increasing the sensitivity of assays for this agent, although quantification of the virus was found unnecessary in serum to be irradiated. Recommendations for the harmonization of 9 CFR and EMEA/CVMP into one assay are given.


pmid: 32932816
title: Veterinarians' Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices Associated with Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus Control and Prevention in South-East Australia
abstract: In Australia, the responsibility and associated costs for the control and prevention of Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) rest solely with producers. Veterinarians provide producers with farm-specific options for BVDV management and support BVDV control and elimination in their region. We surveyed veterinarians to determine their knowledge, attitudes and practices (KAP) associated with BVDV control in south-east Australia. We found that veterinarians' recommendations do not always align with producers' control measures. Veterinarians were uncertain about BVDV prevalence and the proportion of producers using BVDV control measures in their regions. Veterinarians generally promoted biosecurity and vaccination, and were concerned about the welfare and additional disease risks associated with persistently infected (PI) cattle. Veterinarians highlighted concerns about disease risks associated with a previously undocumented practice in which producers collect blood from PI cattle to administer to BVDV naïve cattle; termed "vampire vaccination" in this study. A greater understanding of the burden, impact and economics of BVDV is needed to align veterinarians' and producers' KAP to improve BVDV management on farms, and more appreciation of veterinarians' and producers' values is needed before BVDV control could be implemented at a regional or country level.


pmid: 27764206
title: Molecular Characterization of a Novel Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Isolate SD-15
abstract: As one of the major pathogens, bovine viral diarrhea virus caused a significant economic loss to the livestock industry worldwide. Although BVDV infections have increasingly been reported in China in recent years, the molecular aspects of those BVDV strains were barely characterized. In this study, we reported the identification and characterization of a novel BVDV isolate designated as SD-15 from cattle, which is associated with an outbreak characterized by severe hemorrhagic and mucous diarrhea with high morbidity and mortality in Shandong, China. SD-15 was revealed to be a noncytopathic BVDV, and has a complete genomic sequence of 12,285 nucleotides that contains a large open reading frame encoding 3900 amino acids. Alignment analysis showed that SD-15 has 93.8% nucleotide sequence identity with BVDV ZM-95 isolate, a previous BVDV strain isolated from pigs manifesting clinical signs and lesions resembling to classical swine fever. Phylogenetic analysis clustered SD-15 to a BVDV-1m subgenotype. Analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence of glycoproteins revealed that E2 has several highly conserved and variable regions within BVDV-1 genotypes. An additional N-glycosylation site (240NTT) was revealed exclusively in SD-15-encoded E2 in addition to four potential glycosylation sites (Asn-X-Ser/Thr) shared by all BVDV-1 genotypes. Furthermore, unique amino acid and linear epitope mutations were revealed in SD-15-encoded Erns glycoprotein compared with known BVDV-1 genotype. In conclusion, we have isolated a noncytopathic BVDV-1m strain that is associated with a disease characterized by high morbidity and mortality, revealed the complete genome sequence of the first BVDV-1m virus originated from cattle, and found a unique glycosylation site in E2 and a linear epitope mutation in Erns encoded by SD-15 strain. Those results will broaden the current understanding of BVDV infection and lay a basis for future investigation on SD-15-related pathogenesis.


pmid: 12241032
title: Apoptosis inhibitors delay the cytopathic effect of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV)
abstract: Based on their action in cell culture, two biotypes of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) can be distinguished. The noncytopathic (ncp) BVDV isolated from persistently infected animals cause no visible damage to cultured bovine cells. In contrast, cytopathic (cp) BVDV induces severe damage and apoptosis in cell cultures. Cp BVDV can be isolated from cattle suffering from mucosal disease (MD) and is associated with the severe lesions that primarily affect the gastrointestinal tract. To get an insight into the molecular events during BVDV induced cytopathic effect (CPE), the effect of three chemical reagents (3-aminobenzamide, ascorbic acid and N-acetyl-leucyl-leucyl-methional) with completely different mode of actions in infected cells was analysed. All three substances were able to delay the cytopathic effect induced in permissive bovine cells.


pmid: 25850760
title: Experimental infection of mice with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The objective of this study was to test the ability of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) to infect mice. Two mice each were either mock infected or inoculated with one of three BVDV strains by the intraperitoneal (IP) (n = 8) or intranasal (IN) (n = 8) route. All mice were euthanized at day 7 postinfection (p.i.). None of the infected mice exhibited any clinical signs of illness; however, the tissues harvested after BVDV challenge showed significant histopathological changes. Blood samples from five mice that were injected IP and one mouse that was inoculated IN were positive for BVDV by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was used to assess the presence of viral antigen in the organs of mice infected with three BVDV strains. In IP-injected mice, BVDV antigen was detected in the spleen (5/6), mesenteric lymph nodes (4/6), lymphatic tissue of the lung (3/6), lung (1/6), and stomach (1/6) of the infected mice; however, it was not detected in the liver (0/6) or kidney (0/6). In IN-inoculated mice, BVDV antigen was detected in the lung and mesenteric lymph nodes of one BVDV-infected mouse but was not detected in other tissues. The results of this study suggest that the spleen is the most reliable tissue for BVDV antigen detection using IHC in the IP-injected group. Our study demonstrates that mice can be infected by BVDV. This is the first report of BVDV infection in mice.


pmid: 31507191
title: The effect of human interferon alpha on replication of different bovine viral diarrhea virus strains
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) exists in two main biotypes: cytopathic (cp) and noncytopathic (ncp). Although some studies were done on the effect of interferon alpha (IFN-α) on BVDV, the effect of exogenous IFN against BVDV biotypes remains unclear. In the present study, we evaluated the comparative effect of exogenous human IFN-α (HuIFN-α) on different BVDV biotypes and genotypes. The results showed that exogenous HuIFN-α greatly inhibited the growth of different BVDV biotypes and genotypes. However, HuINF-α has a significant inhibitory effect on cp biotype compared to ncp one without significant variation between different genotypes. The effect of HuIFN-α on BVDV reached the maximum level at early stages of infection (0-20 h post infection) and increased in a dose-dependent manner (10-500 U/ml). Quantitative real-time RT-PCR was used to evaluate the effect of exogenous HuIFN-α on RNA synthesis of both BVDV biotypes. HuIFN-α reduced RNA production of cp by 4 logs compared to only 2 logs for ncp strains. Additionally, the antiviral effect of IFN-α against both BVDV biotypes seems to be independent of the RNA-dependent protein kinase (PKR) activation as assayed by direct analysis of in vivo phosphorylation of eIF2-α and by 2-aminopurine (2-AP) treatment. Collectively, these results indicated that the exogenous HuIFN-α treatment has an inhibitory effect not only on cp BVDV biotype but also on the ncp BVDV. The antiviral effect of exogenous HuIFN-α was biotype, time, dose but not genotype dependent. PKR has no role in the inhibitory effect suggesting that other IFN-antiviral pathways were involved. Keywords: BVDV biotypes; HuIFN-α; RNA synthesis; PKR-independent.


pmid: 35215158
title: The Epidemiology and Control of Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus in Tropical Indonesian Cattle
abstract: This review aims to update the knowledge of the epidemiology of Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in Indonesia and Southeast Asia and provide a perspective on the control options for BVDV in the Indonesian cattle population in the future. Studies on BVDV in Indonesia, since its first report in that country, and the updated beef and dairy cattle industries are reviewed. In ten of 34 provinces, BVDV is endemic. The subgenotypes of BVDV-1a and BVDV-1c are predominant in Indonesian cattle. However, BVDV is currently not a priority disease to control in Indonesia. Cattle imports from Australia appear to be potentially the most significant source of transmission of BVDV into native cattle, but the control of BVDV conducted in the local quarantine facilities is currently not achieving the aim of controlling BVDV; thus, complementary measures are needed. With the small-scale nature of the vast majority of cattle breeding in the country, the control of BVDV in provinces in which cattle breeding is economically essential may need to be organised by regional and provincial governments. Gaps in our knowledge of BVDV are identified in this review, and strategies for the control of BVDV in Indonesia are discussed.


pmid: 10028167
title: Laboratory diagnostic investigations for bovine viral diarrhoea virus infections in cattle
abstract: There are no pathognomonic clinical signs of infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in cattle. Diagnostic investigations therefore rely on laboratory-based detection of the virus, or of virus-induced antigens or antibodies in submitted samples. In unvaccinated dairy herds, serological testing of bulk milk is a convenient method for BVDV prevalence screening. Alternatively, serological testing of young stock may indicate if BVDV is present in a herd. In BVDV positive herds, animals persistently infected (PI) with BVDV can be identified by combined use of serological and virological tests for examination of blood samples. ELISAs have been used for rapid detection of both BVDV antibodies and antigens in blood, but should preferably be backed up by other methods such as virus neutralization, virus isolation in cell cultures or amplification of viral nucleic acid. Detailed knowledge of the performance of the diagnostic tests in use, as well as of the epidemiology of bovine virus diarrhoea is essential for identification of viremic animals in affected herds.


pmid: 24650238
title: Identification and epidemiology of a rare HoBi-like pestivirus strain in Bangladesh
abstract: The genus pestivirus of the family flaviviridae consists of four recognized species: bovine viral diarrhoea virus 1 (BVDV-1), bovine viral diarrhoea virus 2 (BVDV-2), classical swine fever virus and border disease virus. A new putative pestivirus species tentatively named as either 'HoBi-like pestivirus' or BVDV-3 has recently been identified in Brazil, Italy and Thailand. Despite reports of serological evidence of BVDV in Bangladesh, the types of the virus circulating in cattle have not been identified. We conducted surveillance in cattle from May 2009 to August 2010 in three government veterinary hospitals to characterize BVDV in cattle of Bangladesh. We tested serum for BVDV using an antigen-capture ELISA. Of 638 cattle samples, 3% (16/638) tested positive for BVDV antigen. The ELISA-positive samples were selected for further molecular detection and characterization of BVDV. Molecular analysis of the partial 5' untranslated region (UTR) nucleotide sequences of BVDV-positive samples identified the rare HoBi-like pestivirus or BVDV-3 virus circulating in cattle of Bangladesh. The identification of this rare HoBi-like pestivirus or BVDV-3 strain in Bangladesh warrants further surveillance to evaluate its impact on livestock production.


pmid: 1647929
title: The vaccination and challenge with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) of calves previously infected with a non-cytopathic BVDV
abstract: Four calves were infected with noncytopathic (NCP) New York-1 strain of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). During the observation period of one month the calves remained clinically normal but the virus was repeatedly recovered from their pharyngeal swabbings and blood. Thirty days following infection the four calves were vaccinated, together with two uninfected calves, with a modified-live vaccine containing cytopathic (CP) BVDV, infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus and parainfluenza-3 virus. No detrimental effects were observed after vaccination. Forty-three days after vaccination the calves were challenged by exposure either with the CP TVM-2 strain or the NCP New York-1 strain of BVDV. The vaccinated calves remained healthy throughout the 60-day observation period.


pmid: 28702931
title: Autophagy induced by bovine viral diarrhea virus infection counteracts apoptosis and innate immune activation
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an important pathogen of cattle that plays a complex role in disease. There are two biotypes of BVDV: non-cytopathic (NCP) and cytopathic (CP). One strategy that has been used to treat or prevent virus-associated diseases is the modulation of autophagy, which is used by the innate immune system to defend against viral infection; however, at present, the interplay between autophagy and BVDV remains unclear. Madin-Darby bovine kidney cells stably expressing microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3B (LC3B) with green fluorescent protein (GFP) (GFP-LC3-MDBK cells) and autophagy-deficient MDBKs (shBCN1-MDBK cells) were constructed. Then MDBK, GFP-LC3-MDBK and shBCN1-MDBK cells were infected with CP or NCP BVDV strains. The LC3-II turnover rate was estimated by western blot, autophagosomes were visualized by confocal microscopy, and ultrastructural analysis was performed using electron microscopy. Autophagy flux was observed using chloroquine as an inhibitor of the autophagic process. The influence of autophagy on BVDV replication and release was investigated using virus titration, and its effect on cell viability was also studied. The effect of BVDV-induced autophagy on the survival of BVDV-infected host cell, cell apoptosis, and interferon (IFN) signalling was studied by flow cytometric analysis and quantitative RT-(q)PCR using shBCN1-MDBK cells. we found that infection with either CP or NCP BVDV strains induced steady-state autophagy in MDBK cells, as evident by the increased number of double- or single-membrane vesicles, the accumulation of GFP- microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3) dots, and the conversion of LC3-I (cytosolic) to LC3-II (membrane-bound) forms. The complete autophagic process was verified by monitoring the LC3-II turnover ratio, lysosomal delivery, and proteolysis. In addition, we found that CP and NCP BVDV growth was inhibited in MDBK cells treated with high levels of an autophagy inducer or inhibitor, or in autophagy deficient-MDBK cells. Furthermore, our studies also suggested that CP and NCP BVDV infection in autophagy-knockdown MDBK cells increased apoptotic cell death and enhanced the expression of the mRNAs for IFN-α, Mx1, IFN-β, and OAS-1 as compared with control MDBK cells. Our study provides strong evidence that BVDV infection induces autophagy, which facilitates BVDV replication in MDBK cells and impairs the innate immune response. These findings might help to illustrate the pathogenesis of persistent infection caused by BVDV.


pmid: 29699786
title: Comparison of reproductive protection against bovine viral diarrhea virus provided by multivalent viral vaccines containing inactivated fractions of bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 and 2
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an important viral cause of reproductive disease, immune suppression and clinical disease in cattle. The objective of this study was to compare reproductive protection in cattle against the impacts of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) provided by three different multivalent vaccines containing inactivated BVDV. BVDV negative beef heifers and cows (n = 122) were randomly assigned to one of four groups. Groups A-C (n = 34/group) received two pre-breeding doses of one of three commercially available multivalent vaccines containing inactivated fractions of BVDV 1 and BVDV 2, and Group D (n = 20) served as negative control and received two doses of saline prior to breeding. Animals were bred, and following pregnancy diagnosis, 110 cattle [Group A (n = 31); Group B (n = 32); Group C (n = 31); Group D (n = 16)] were subjected to a 28-day exposure to cattle persistently infected (PI) with BVDV (1a, 1b and 2a). Of the 110 pregnancies, 6 pregnancies resulted in fetal resorption with no material for testing. From the resultant 104 pregnancies, BVDV transplacental infections were demonstrated in 73 pregnancies. The BVDV fetal infection rate (FI) was calculated at 13/30 (43%) for Group A cows, 27/29 (93%) for Group B cows, 18/30 (60%) for Group C cows, and 15/15 (100%) for Group D cows. Statistical differences were observed between groups with respect to post-vaccination antibody titers, presence and duration of viremia in pregnant cattle, and fetal infection rates in offspring from BVDV-exposed cows. Group A vaccination resulted in significant protection against BVDV infection as compared to all other groups based upon outcome measurements, while Group B vaccination did not differ in protection against BVDV infection from control Group D. Ability of inactivated BVDV vaccines to provide protection against BVDV fetal infection varies significantly among commercially available products; however, in this challenge model, the inactivated vaccines provided unacceptable levels of BVDV FI protection.


pmid: 27843559
title: Genetic diversity of bovine viral diarrhea viruses from the Galicia region of Spain
abstract: This study examined the frequency and diversity of bovine viral diarrhoea viruses (BVDVs) infecting cattle in Galicia (northwestern Spain). A total of 86 BVDV strains were typed in samples of serum from 79 persistently infected animals and 3 viraemic animals and of abomasal fluid from 4 fetuses. Samples came from 73 farms participating in a voluntary BVDV control programme. Typing was based on a 288-bp sequence from the 5' untranslated region amplified using primers 324 and 326. Of the 86 strains, 85 (98.8 per cent) belonged to species BVDV-1 and 1 (1.2 per cent) belonged to BVDV-2; 73 strains (84.9 per cent) were typed as BVDV-1b, 2 as BVDV-1e and 6 as BVDV-1d. One strain each was typed as belonging to 1a, 1h, 1k and 1l. The sole BVDV-2 strain was classified as 2a. These results identify BVDV-1b as the predominant species, and they indicate the presence of viral types not previously described anywhere in Spain. This is also the first report of BVDV-2 in Galicia and only the second report of BVDV-2 in Spain.


pmid: 10734451
title: Noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) reduces cleavage but increases blastocyst yield of in vitro produced embryos
abstract: The growing application of in vitro embryo production systems that utilize slaughterhouse tissues of animals of unknown health status conveys the risk of disease transmission. One pathogen of concern in this regard is bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and the objective of this study was to investigate the effect of BVDV on in vitro embryonic development. A bovine in vitro embryo production system was experimentally infected with BVDV at 2 stages: prior to in vitro maturation by incubating cumulus-oocyte complexes (COC) with virus (strain Pe515; titer 10(6.2) tissue culture infective dose (TCID)50/mL) or vehicle for 2 h, and then during in vitro culture by the use of BVDV infected granulosa cells. Exposure to BVDV throughout in vitro production reduced cleavage rates (P = 0.01) but increased (P = 0.05) the number of embryos that reached the 8-cell stage when expressed as a percentage of cleaved oocytes. Blastocyst yield was increased by the presence of virus when expressed as a proportion of oocytes (P = 0.0034) or of those cleaved (P < 0.0001). The percentage of total blastocyst yield on Days 7, 8 and 9 for the control and virus treatments was 20, 51, 29 and 29, 41, and 29%, respectively, indicating that the rate of blastocyst development was nonsignificantly faster in the virus-treated group (P = 0.06). These results indicate that the presence of non-cytopathogenic BVDV in an in vitro production system may reduce cleavage rates but allow those cleaved to develop to blastocysts at a higher rate.


pmid: 12241025
title: Natural changes in the spread of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) among Estonian cattle
abstract: The results of a survey conducted during 1993-2000 to study the spread of bovine viral diarrhoeal virus (BVDV) among Estonian cattle are presented. The BVDV infection status of a representative random sample of cattle herds housing 20 or more dairy cows was established to estimate the prevalence of herds with active BVDV infection [potentially having persistently infected (PI) cattle--suspect PI herds]. The herds investigated comprised approximately 70% of all Estonian dairy cows. The BVDV infection status was established in 315-350 herds (making the sampling fraction about 20%) during three sampling periods: 1993-95, 1997-98, 1999-2000. BVDV antibodies were detected in herd bulk milk samples and/or sera from young stock by a liquid-phase-blocking enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay developed in the Danish Veterinary Institute for Virus Research. The results of the survey demonstrate the reduction in the prevalence of herds with active BVDV infection in the studied fraction of the Estonian cattle population. During the first sampling period (1993-95) a prevalence of 46% (+/- 5%) for suspect PI herds was observed, during the second sampling period this prevalence was 16% (+/- 3%) and in the third period it was 18% (+/- 3%). As there is no control programme for BVDV in Estonia, the observed changes reflect the natural course of the infection in the study population. A possible cause for these changes is the decreased trade in breeding animals as a result of the economic difficulties present in cattle farming during the study period. The farming practices (most large herds are managed as closed herds) and the low density of cattle farms have obviously facilitated the self-clearance of herds from the BVDV infection, diminishing the new introduction of infection into the herds.


pmid: 16183155
title: BVDV infection risk in the course of the voluntary BVDV eradication program in Styria/Austria
abstract: A total of 1362 persistently BVDV-infected animals were identified in 850 herds during the first 3 years of the voluntary BVDV eradication program in Styria/Austria. Within the same period of time, the prevalence of BVDV-infected herds dropped from 7.3% to 2.2% of the 4412 herds covered by the program. The relative BVDV infection risk decreased at least four-fold in herds on common grazing and at least five-fold in herds which purchased cattle during the first 30 months of the BVD control program. Thus, the relative BVDV infection risk was reduced by between five to nine times of the initial risk following the implementation of the 3-year eradication program in all herds participating in the program.


pmid: 32959363
title: Introduction and elimination of Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus in a commercial beef herd: a case study
abstract: Routine Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) monitoring of a commercial beef herd in southern New South Wales over a 10-year period provided an opportunity to assess the impact of the introduction of BVDV on that herd. BVDV antibody testing provided strong evidence that the herd was initially free of BVDV (2009-2011). Testing from 2012 suggested BVDV had been introduced into the herd and this was confirmed in 2015 with the identification of persistently infected (PI) animals. Having become established in the herd, the owners then set out to eliminate BVDV from the herd. Antigen testing aimed at identifying PI animals revealed BVDV was already absent from the herd. Subsequent antibody testing confirmed that the herd was now free from BVDV. Despite the incursion of BVDV in this herd, there was little measurable impact on reproductive performance (pregnancy rates), although suspected increased calf losses from birth to calf marking were reported. This is the first time such self-clearance has been documented as part of a longitudinal study under Australian conditions.


pmid: 16443302
title: Phylogenetic analysis of Portuguese bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infections are an important cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide in dairy and beef cattle. To date, little is know about BVDV genotypes circulating in Portugal. For this purpose, a fragment within the 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) from 34 Portuguese field strains of BVDV was amplified by RT-PCR, cloned and sequenced. A maximum-likelihood phylogenetic analysis revealed that most of viruses, originated from cattle from different regions of the country, belong to BVDV type 1 (BVDV-1), genotypes 1b (n = 19), 1a (n = 6), 1d (n = 3) and 1e (n = 3); whereas three viruses clustered in BVDV type 2 (BVDV-2). The results from this study demonstrate that BVDV-lb is the most prevalent genotype and also shows the presence of BVDV-2 in Portugal.


pmid: 28803536
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1b fetal infection with extensive hemorrhage
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) 1b was isolated from tissues of a term bovine fetus with petechial hemorrhages noted throughout the body and placenta at autopsy. Fresh lung, kidney, thymus, and liver tissues were examined by direct fluorescent antibody testing and were positive for BVDV antigen and negative for bovine herpesvirus 1 antigen. An organ pool of fresh tissues was positive for noncytopathic (NCP) BVDV-1 by virus isolation. BVDV-1b was identified by sequencing of the 5'-UTR region of the genome. Fixed brain, placenta, thymus, lymph node, lung, kidney, skeletal muscle, liver, and bone marrow were positive for BVDV antigen by immunohistochemistry. Although BVDV hemorrhage and/or thrombocytopenia has been associated historically with NCP strains of BVDV-2, this case adds to more recent reports of BVDV-1 infections and hemorrhage in cattle. This BVDV-1b isolate should be investigated for its potential to cause hemorrhage in postnatal cattle.


pmid: 26400674
title: Genetic and antigenic characterization of bovine viral diarrhea viruses isolated from cattle in Hokkaido, Japan
abstract: In our previous study, we genetically analyzed bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDVs) isolated from 2000 to 2006 in Japan and reported that subgenotype 1b viruses were predominant. In the present study, 766 BVDVs isolated from 2006 to 2014 in Hokkaido, Japan, were genetically analyzed to understand recent epidemics. Phylogenetic analysis based on nucleotide sequences of the 5'-untranslated region of viral genome revealed that 766 isolates were classified as genotype 1 (BVDV-1; 544 isolates) and genotype 2 (BVDV-2; 222). BVDV-1 isolates were further divided into BVDV-1a (93), 1b (371) and 1c (80) subgenotypes, and all BVDV-2 isolates were grouped into BVDV-2a subgenotype (222). Further comparative analysis was performed with BVDV-1a, 1b and 2a viruses isolated from 2001 to 2014. Phylogenetic analysis based on nucleotide sequences of the viral glycoprotein E2 gene, a major target of neutralizing antibodies, revealed that BVDV-1a, 1b and 2a isolates were further classified into several clusters. Cross-neutralization tests showed that BVDV-1b isolates were antigenically different from BVDV-1a isolates, and almost BVDV-1a, 1b and 2a isolates were antigenically similar among each subgenotype and each E2 cluster. Taken together, BVDV-1b viruses are still predominant, and BVDV-2a viruses have increased recently in Hokkaido, Japan. Field isolates of BVDV-1a, 1b and 2a show genetic diversity on the E2 gene with antigenic conservation among each subgenotype during the last 14 years.


pmid: 33006140
title: Serological status of cattle to bovine viral diarrhoea virus and bovine herpesvirus 1 at entry to and exit from Australian feedlot backgrounding facilities
abstract: A total of 6195 cattle were enrolled in this observational study. Serum antibody concentrations to bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV1) and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) were measured at entry to and exit from backgrounding facilities to assess their statuses on arrival and the extent of seroconversion to these viruses during backgrounding. The backgrounding facilities were contiguous with five feedlots in: Queensland (two sites), New South Wales, South Australia and Western Australia. Cattle were held in the backgrounding facilities for a minimum of 29 days and a median of 34 days. On backgrounding facility entry, 32.7% of the study population was seronegative to BVDV, but 85.7% was seronegative to BHV1. After commingling in the backgrounding facilities, of the cattle that were seronegative on backgrounding facility entry, 33.9% and 30.3% showed a serological increase to BVDV and BHV1, respectively. At backgrounding facility exit, when cattle were placed in their feedlots, 19.6% and 59.1% were seronegative to BVDV and BHV1, respectively, and 0.26% were persistently infected with BVDV. There was a strong association between seroincrease to BVDV and seroincrease to BHV1 (P = 0.005) at animal level in cohorts known to contain an animal persistently infected with BVDV.


pmid: 19019571
title: Genetic diversity of pestivirus isolates in cattle from Western Austria
abstract: The genetic diversity of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) isolates in infected cattle from Tyrol and Vorarlberg (Austria) was investigated. Blood samples were collected within the compulsory Austrian BVDV control programme during 2005 and 2006. The 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) and partially the N-terminal autoprotease (N(pro)) were amplified by one-step reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and the PCR products were subsequently sequenced. Phylogenetic analysis based on 5'-UTR and N(pro) sequences demonstrated that almost all isolates (307/310) were of the BVDV-1 genotype. They were clustered into eight different subtypes, here listed by their frequency of occurrence: BVDV-1h (143), BVDV-1f (79), BVDV-1b (41), BVDV-1d (28), BVDV-1e (6), BVDV-1a (4), BVDV-1g (3) and BVDV1-k (3). Two pestivirus isolates were typed as BVDV-2 and one isolate as BDV closely related to Gifhorn strain (BDV-3). Correlation among isolates could only be observed at the farm level, i.e., within a herd. However, no correlation between the genetic and geographical distances could be observed above the farm level. Because of the wide distribution of certain BVDV-1 subtypes and the low prevalence of herd-specific strains, a determination of tracing routes of infection was not possible. Furthermore, recombination events were not detected.


pmid: 18987229
title: Genetic diversity of bovine viral diarrhea virus 1: Italian isolates clustered in at least seven subgenotypes
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an economically important pathogen of cattle. Two approved species are recognized, namely BVDV-1 and BVDV-2. To date, only 4 subgenotypes of BVDV-2 are known, and at least 11 distinct subgenotypes have been detected for BVDV-1. In a previous study, the genetic characteristics of 38 field isolates of BVDV from northern Italy were investigated, and all 38 isolates were classified as BVDV-1 and could be assigned to 5 different subgenotypes, namely BVDV-1b, BVDV-1d, BVDV-1e, BVDV-1h, and BVDV-1f. However, the circulation of BVDV-2 has been reported in Italy as well. The aim of the current study was to type 88 BVD viruses found throughout Italy. Genetic study was based on the 5'-UTR, supported by select comparison within the N(pro) coding region. Phylogenetic analysis showed that 5 isolates could be typed as BVDV-2a. The remaining 83 isolates were typed as BVDV-1 and were found to belong to 7 distinct subgenotypes, namely BVDV-1a (n = 8), BVDV-1b (n = 37), BVDV-1d (n = 3), BVDV-1e (n = 22), BVDV-1f (n = 4), BVDV-1g (n = 4), and BVDV-1h (n = 5). The majority of cattle farms in the current study were predominantly infected by BVDV-1b and BVDV-1e isolates, whereas the other BVDV subgenotypes occurred only sporadically. The results also provided evidence for circulation of additional subgenotypes BVDV-1a and BVDV-1g. The occurrence of BVDV-2 was also reconfirmed.


pmid: 33426047
title: Concurrent detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus and bovine herpesvirus-1 in bulls' semen and their effect on semen quality
abstract: Reproductive diseases may have destructive effects on the fertility of cattle. Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and bovine herpes virus-1 (BoHV-1) are potent viral pathogens linked to reproduction. Thus, the aim of this study was to utilize raw semen samples for conventional and molecular detection of BVDV and BoHV-1, simultaneously. Additionally, the effect of virus infection on the semen quality of naturally infected bulls has been investigated. Therefore, 40 bulls were employed for semen collection, evaluation and testing for both viruses by virus isolation, direct fluorescent antibody technique (FAT) and SYBR Green real-time PCR assay. In virus isolation results, no cytopathic effect (CPE) was observed for BVDV on cell culture whereas, eight (20%) samples displayed characteristic grape-like clusters of cells for BoHV-1. By direct FAT, 12 (30%) positive BVDV and 8 (20%) positive BoHV-1 samples were confirmed. SYBR Green real-time PCR analysis using 48 h inoculated semen samples revealed 14 (35%) and 8 (20%) positive samples for BVDV and BoHV-1, respectively. Statistical analysis of semen evaluation parameters showed a significant difference between viral-infected and free groups represented by increased sperm abnormalities and decreased sperm motility, liveability and concentration. However, there was no significant difference among BVDV, BoHV-1 and mixed-infected groups. The study concluded that BVDV and/or BoHV- 1 infected bulls expressed low semen quality. Real-time PCR was confirmed to be the ideal laboratory assay for detection of both viruses in semen.


pmid: 10507184
title: [Selection of BVDV genotype II isolates using a monoclonal antibody and FACS analysis]
abstract: The infection of cattle with the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in Germany is gaining attention and guidelines for the "protection of cattle farms against BVDV infections" were passed in 1997. New investigations about the damages induced by BVDV infections as well as the new occurrence of so-called BVDV genotypes (BVDV I and II) made the problems to become aware. The newly described BVDV genotype considerably differs both genetically and antigenetically from the up to now known BVD-viruses (BVDV I). The subdivision in BVDV genotypes I and II is based on genomic differences, which are determined by sequence analyses of different parts of the viral genome. Here, we describe the classification of BVDV in genotypes using a monoclonal antibody and indirect immunofluorescence with flow cytometry (FACS) based analysis. The suitability of the mab WB160 (Central Veterinary Laboratory, Weybridge; UK) for the classification of both BVDV-genotypes was first checked using genetically defined BVDV isolates. While all BVDV I isolates (n = 20) reacted with high fluorescence signals, the mab WB160 could not detect any of the defined BVDV II isolates (n = 20). Subsequently, 505 BVDV field strains isolated between 1993-1997 were screened for both genotypes using the mab WB160 and FACS analysis. 33 (6.5%) of the BVDV isolates were classified as BVDV II.


pmid: 18094189
title: Transdominant inhibition of bovine viral diarrhea virus entry
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a positive-strand RNA virus and a member of the genus Pestivirus in the family Flaviviridae. To identify and characterize essential factors required for BVDV replication, a library expressing random fragments of the BVDV genome was screened for sequences that act as transdominant inhibitors of viral replication by conferring resistance to cytopathic BVDV-induced cell death. We isolated a BVDV-nonpermissive MDBK cell clone that harbored a 1.2-kb insertion spanning the carboxy terminus of the envelope glycoprotein 1 (E1), the envelope glycoprotein E2, and the amino terminus of p7. Confirming the resistance phenotype conferred by this library clone, naïve MDBK cells expressing this fragment were found to be 100- to 1,000-fold less permissive to both cytopathic and noncytopathic BVDV infection compared to parental MDBK cells, although these cells remained fully permissive to vesicular stomatitis virus. This restriction could be overcome by electroporation of BVDV RNA, indicating a block at one or more steps in viral entry prior to translation of the viral RNA. We determined that the E2 ectodomain was responsible for the inhibition to BVDV entry and that this block occurred downstream from BVDV interaction with the cellular receptor CD46 and virus binding, suggesting interference with a yet-unidentified BVDV entry factor.


pmid: 22613254
title: High prevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 in Chinese swine herds
abstract: Nested RT-PCR was used to investigate bovine viral diarrhea virus in 511 specimens collected from Chinese pigs exhibiting clinical symptoms between 2007 and 2010. Of these, 137 samples were BVDV-positive and the BVDV prevalence rate was 23.1% (9/39) in 2007, 27.7% (44/159) in 2008, 33.6% (34/101) in 2009, and 23.6% (50/212) in 2010. Twenty of 137 BVDV-positive samples were used for further genetic analysis of the 5'-UTR. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that they were BVDV-1 and subtyped into BVDV-1a, BVDV-1b, BVDV-1m, BVDV-1o and an unknown subgenotype. This study showed that BVDVs were highly prevalent in Chinese pig herds and appropriate measures should be taken to control BVDV prevalence in pig herds.


pmid: 19883524
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus infections in heterologous species
abstract: Infections with Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) are not limited to cattle, but may be detected in various species in the mammalian order Artiodactyla. Despite epidemiological evidence of BVDV infections in species other than cattle, current knowledge regarding the impact of BVDV on heterologous species is incomplete. In heterologous hosts, BVDV infections with clinical signs analogous to those in cattle have been described and include disease of multiple organ systems, most notably the reproductive tract and immune system. Clinical infections may negatively impact the health and well-being of heterologous species, including camelids and captive and free-ranging wildlife. Of additional importance are BVDV infections in small ruminants and swine where difficulties arise in laboratory testing for Border disease virus (BDV) and Classical swine fever virus (CSFV), respectively. Pestiviruses are antigenically closely related and their cross-reactivity requires additional efforts in virological testing. In cattle populations, persistently infected animals are considered the main source of BVDV transmission. This phenomenon has also been detected in heterologous species, which could facilitate reservoirs for BVDV that may be of great importance where control programs are in progress. This review summarizes the current epidemiological and clinical knowledge on heterologous BVDV infections and discusses their implications.


pmid: 9646457
title: Nucleotide sequence homology to bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 (BVDV 2) in the 5' untranslated region of BVDVs from cattle with mucosal disease or persistent infection in Japan
abstract: Cytopathogenic and non-cytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDVs) were isolated from cattle with mucosal disease or persistent infection in Japan. These isolates were compared for antigenic properties by cross-neutralization tests with Japanese reference strains of BVDV belonging to classical type 1. Significantly low cross-reactivity to reference strains was noted, indicating the viruses to possibly represent a new serotype in Japan. Thus, to determine the genotype of the isolates, nucleotide sequences of the 5' untranslated region were determined and compared with those of previously reported BVDV 1 and 2. The isolates were clearly shown to belong to BVDV 2, not to BVDV 1.


pmid: 26992733
title: Identification of bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in Saanen goats in the Republic of Korea
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is one of the most important viral pathogens of livestock and causes substantial economic losses to the livestock industry worldwide. BVDV is not necessarily species specific and is known to infect domesticated and wild ruminants. In the present study, BVDV infection was identified in two Saanen goats from one farm, and two different viral subtypes were found, BVDV-1a and BVDV-2a. Each isolate was closely related to cattle isolates identified in the Republic of Korea. The two sequences obtained in this study were not consistent with border disease virus (BDV). The incidence of BVDV in this farm apparently occurred in the absence of contact with cattle and may be associated with grazing. This study demonstrates that BVDV infection may be possible to transmit among goats without exposure to cattle. Therefore, this result indicates that Saanen goats may act as natural reservoirs for BVDV. This is the first report of BVDV-1a infection in a Saanen goat.


pmid: 21069395
title: Analysis of codon usage in bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a widespread virus in beef and dairy herds. BVDV has been grouped into two genotypes, genotype 1 and genotype 2. In this study, the relative synonymous codon usage (RSCU) values, effective number of codon (ENC) values and nucleotide content were investigated, and a comparative analysis of codon usage patterns for open reading frames (ORFs) of 22 BVDV genomes, including 14 of genotype 1 and 8 of genotype 2, was carried out. A high A+U content and low codon bias were found in BVDV genomes. Depending on the RSCU data, it was found that there was a significant variation in bias of codon usage between the two genotypes, and a geographic factor exists only in genotype-1 of BVDV. The RSCU data have a negative correlation with general average hydrophobicity (GRAVY), aromaticity and nucleotide content. Furthermore, the overall abundance of C and U has no effect on the synonymous codon usage patterns. In contrast, the A and G content showed a significant correlation with the nucleotide content at the third position. In addition, the codon usage patterns of BVDV are similar to those of 22 conserved genes of Bos taurus. Taken together, the genetic characteristics of BVDV possibly result from interactions between natural selection and mutation pressure.


pmid: 29536016
title: Establishment of a Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Type 2 Intranasal Challenge Model for Assessing Vaccine Efficacy
abstract: The objective of this study was to develop a bovine viral diarrhea virus type 2 (BVDV-2) challenge model suitable for evaluation of efficacy of BVDV vaccines; a model that mimics natural infection and induces clear leukopenia and viremia. Clinical, hematological and virological parameters were evaluated after infection of two age groups of calves (3 and 9 months) with two BVDV-2 strains (1362727 and 502643). Calves became pyrexic between 8 and 9 days post inoculation and exhibited symptoms, such as nasal discharge, mild depression, cough, and inappetence. Leukopenia with associated lymphopenia and neutropenia was evident in all groups with lowest leukocyte and lymphocyte counts reached 8 dpi and granulocyte counts between 11 and 16 dpi, dependent on the strain and age of the calves. A more severe thrombocytopenia was seen in those animals inoculated with strain 1362727. Leukocyte and nasal swab samples were positive by virus isolation, as early as 3 dpi and 2 dpi respectively, independent of the inocula used. All calves seroconverted with high levels of BVDV-2 neutralizing antibodies. BVDV RNA was evident as late as 90 dpi and provides the first evidence of the presence of replicating virus long after recovery from BVDV-2 experimental infection. In summary, moderate disease can be induced after experimental infection of calves with a low titer of virulent BVDV-2, with leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, viremia, and virus shedding. These strains represent an attractive model to assess the protective efficacy of existing and new vaccines against BVDV-2.


pmid: 15737468
title: Genetic analysis of bovine viral diarrhoea viruses from Australia
abstract: Eighty-nine bovine viral diarrhoea viruses (BVDV) from Australia have been genetically typed by sequencing of the 5' untranslated region (5'-UTR) and for selected isolates the N(pro) region of the viral genome. Phylogenetic reconstructions indicated that all of the samples examined clustered within the BVDV type 1 genotype. Of the 11 previously described genetic groups of BVDV-1, 87 of the samples examined in this study clustered with the BVDV-1c, while two samples clustered with the BVDV-1a. Based on these analyses there appears to be limited genetic variation within the Australian BVDV field isolates. In addition, the phylogenetic reconstructions indicate that the clustering of Australian BVDV in the phylogenetic trees is not a result of geographic isolation.


pmid: 7975238
title: Segregation of bovine viral diarrhea virus into genotypes
abstract: Isolates of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were segregated into two groups based on comparison of sequences from the 5' untranslated region (UTR) of the viral genome. Phylogenic analysis suggested that these groups, termed BVDV I and BVDV II, are as different from each other as reference BVDV (BVDV-NADL, BVDV-SD-1, BVDV-Osloss) are from hog cholera virus. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests, based on the 5' untranslated region and the genomic region coding for the p125 polypeptide, were designed to differentiate between BVDV I and BVDV II. Using these tests, 76 of 140 isolates of BVDV were identified as BVDV II. Antigenic and pathologic differences were noted between BVDV I and BVDV II viruses. Among BVDV I were viruses commonly used in vaccine production, diagnostic tests, and research. BVDV II was isolated predominantly from fetal bovine sera, persistently infected calves born to dams vaccinated against BVDV, and cattle that had died from an acute form of BVDV termed hemorrhagic syndrome.


pmid: 23661395
title: Effects of bovine viral diarrhoea virus on the fertility of cows
abstract: The aim of the present study was to determine the possible relationship between bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) virus infection and the appearance of cervical mucous discharge (CMD) and the reproductive performance of cows in oestrus. For this purpose, CMD from 97 Holstein cows in oestrus was evaluated visually before artificial insemination (AI). Cows in oestrus were inseminated with frozen semen free from BVD virus (BVDV). Blood samples were tested by enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA) for antigen (Ag) and antibodies (Ab) of BVDV. The presence of the BVDV genome in cervical mucus samples was tested by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The presence of BVDV Ab, Ag or genome was not associated with abnormal cervical mucous discharge (A-CMD). However, the presence of BVDV Ag (but not of the BVDV Ab) in blood samples was associated with a lower first service conception rate (FSCR; 27.8 vs. 70.9%; P < 0.01), indicating that BVDV viraemia at the time of AI has a negative effect on the fertility of cows.


pmid: 23561853
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus fetal persistent infection after immunization with a contaminated modified-live virus vaccine
abstract: The objective was to determine whether a multivalent modified-live virus vaccine containing noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) administered off-label to pregnant cattle can result in persistently infected fetuses and to assess whether vaccinal strains can be shed to unvaccinated pregnant cattle commingling with vaccinates. Nineteen BVDV-naïve pregnant heifers were randomly assigned to two groups: cattle vaccinated near Day 77 of gestation with modified-live virus vaccine containing BVDV-1a (WRL strain), bovine herpes virus-1, parainfluenza 3, and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (Vx group; N = 10) or control unvaccinated cattle (N = 9). During the course of the study a voluntary stop-sale/recall was conducted by the manufacturer because of the presence of a BVDV contaminant in the vaccine. At Day 175 of gestation, fetuses were removed by Cesarean section and fetal tissues were submitted for virus isolation, and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction using BVDV-1- and BVDV-2-specific probes. Nucleotide sequencing of viral RNA was performed for quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction-positive samples. Two vaccinated and two control heifers aborted their pregnancies, but their fetuses were unavailable for BVDV testing. Virus was isolated from all eight fetuses in the Vx group heifers and from 2 of 7 fetuses in the control unvaccinated heifers. Only BVDV-2 was detected in fetuses from the Vx group, and only BVDV-1 was detected in the two fetuses from the control group. Both BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 were detected in the vaccine. In conclusion, vaccination of pregnant heifers with a contaminated modified-live BVDV vaccine resulted in development of BVDV-2 persistently infected fetuses in all tested vaccinated animals. Furthermore, BVDV was apparently shed to unvaccinated heifers causing fetal infections from which only BVDV-1 was detected.


pmid: 2994279
title: An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the detection of antibodies to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in cattle sera
abstract: A microtitre ELISA has been established for the quantitation of antibodies to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). Single dilutions of sera were assayed and units of antibody were calculated from a standard curve. In order to detect the maximum number of responding animals both IgG1 and IgG2 antibody should be assayed, although detection of IgG1 alone was nearly as effective. The ELISA was as sensitive as the virus neutralization test for detection of antibody; comparison of an ELISA that detected IgG1 plus IgG2 antibody to BVDV with the virus neutralization test gave a correlation coefficient (r) of 0.89 (P less than 0.001 for 95 compared sera). Although similar amounts of IgG1 and IgG2 antibodies were present in sera from both experimentally- and naturally-infected cattle, antibody to BVDV in colostrum and in the sera from young calves was predominantly IgG1. The number of adult cows with antibody was 40 out of 41 while 36 of 44 calves reared in a beef unit were found to have produced antibody by the time they were 31.5 weeks old, an indication of the high prevalence of BVDV in the cattle population.


pmid: 22944626
title: Measuring bovine viral diarrhea virus vaccine response: using a commercially available ELISA as a surrogate for serum neutralization assays
abstract: Genetic selection in livestock offers the opportunity to improve bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) vaccine response, but first we must define how vaccine response should be measured. For measuring humoral vaccine response, serum neutralization (SN) measures antibodies that can neutralize BVDV, but relative to enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) is time consuming, technically demanding, and expensive. The ELISA, however, measures total BVDV-specific antibodies, regardless of whether the antibodies can neutralize BVDV. Our objective was to test whether a commercially available BVDV antibody ELISA could be used as a surrogate (or indicator trait) for neutralizing antibodies as measured by SN. Angus and Angus-cross calves (n=193) from two South Dakota research herds were vaccinated for BVDV-1 and BVDV-2. Sera and plasma samples (n=406) were collected from these calves at the time of vaccination and post-vaccination (20-72 days post-vaccination). The BVDV-specific antibody concentration was measured on each serum and plasma sample by (1) a commercially available total antibody ELISA, (2) BVDV-1 SN, and (3) BVDV-2 SN. Correlation between the ELISA and SN tests was estimated with a Spearman correlation coefficient. Higher BVDV ELISA sample-to-positive (S/P) ratios were positively correlated with higher BVDV-1 (ρ=0.809) and BVDV-2 (ρ=0.638) SN titers (P<0.0001), although the relationship was weaker when SN titers were <1:64. Higher BVDV-1 SN titers were also positively correlated with higher BVDV-2 SN titers (ρ=0.708; P<0.0001). The correlation between ELISA S/P ratios and SN titers was lower when calves were ≤2 months of age (ρ=0.344-0.566). Our results suggest that increased ELISA S/P ratios were associated with higher SN titers. We conclude that this BVDV antibody ELISA can be used as a surrogate for BVDV-1 and -2 SN titers when investigating genetic determinants of vaccine response, as long as samples are collected at 2 months of age or older.


pmid: 27615437
title: HoBi-Like Virus RNA Detected in Foetuses Following Challenge of Pregnant Cows that had Previously Given Birth to Calves Persistently Infected with Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus
abstract: The ability of ruminant pestivirus including bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and the related emerging pestivirus, HoBi-like virus, to establish persistent infection (PI) following foetal infection is central to keeping these viruses in circulation. Non-PI dams carrying BVDV PI calves develop high levels of immunity due constantly viral exposure. A study to determine whether the immunity developed following the generation of a BVDV PI is enough to prevent HoBi-like virus infection of a subsequent foetus was performed. This study consisted of nine pregnant cows, four had birthed BVDV-1 PI calves in a previous pregnancy, three cows had birthed BVDV-2 PIs and two had birthed pestivirus negative calves. From this, six pregnant cows were challenged with HoBi-like virus about day 85 of gestation (four BVDV-1 and two BVDV-2 cows) and three non-challenged cows (negative control). At the day of challenge, the serum neutralizing titres against the homologous BVDV strains of the first inoculation ranged from 1148 to 5793. At day 6 post-challenge, HoBi-like RNA was detected in the serum of all four BVDV-1 cows but not in the two BVDV-2 cows. The foetuses harvested from five of the exposed dams (three BVDV-1 and two BVDV-2 cows) at day 30 post-challenge were positive for HoBi-like virus RNA. The sixth cow, BVDV-1 cow #541, while pregnant at the time of exposure, had no foetus 30 days after exposure. Foetuses from HoBi-like virus exposed dams were significantly smaller and lighter than control foetuses. HoBi-like RNA was detected in samples of all challenged foetuses. The identification of viral RNA in the serum of 4 cows at day 6 post-challenge, as well viral RNA detection in all foetuses 30 days post-inoculation, indicates that the foetuses of dams with high antibodies titres against BVDV-1 or BVDV-2 would not be protected from challenge with a HoBi-like virus.


pmid: 1659027
title: Specific sequence amplification of bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV) and hog cholera virus and sequencing of BVDV nucleic acid
abstract: The pestiviruses are small enveloped RNA viruses and are causative agents of economically important animal diseases in cattle, swine, sheep and goats worldwide. We used the polymerase chain reaction to amplify one common fragment of several different strains of both hog cholera virus and bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV). The fragment is located at the 5'-end of the genome immediately upstream of the open reading frame. This is a highly conserved region among the different published pestivirus sequences. An internal restriction digest of the amplified fragment with XhoI and PstI was performed in order to confirm specificity of the amplified fragment. The fragment was sequenced for a number of different BVDV strains, and the sequences obtained were compared to those published and used to deduce genetic relationships between strains. Apart from this common fragment we have amplified several other fragments of the Danish BVDV strain Ug59 and obtained specific amplification fragments of the expected size.


pmid: 19931989
title: Voluntary and compulsory eradication of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in Lower Austria
abstract: A voluntary BVDV eradication program without vaccination was introduced in Austria in 1997, according to the Swedish model employing herd-level antibody tests. Since this time, identified persistently infected (PI) animals have to be slaughtered. In order to protect non-infected herds, the major routes of introduction of BVDV infection into a herd, such as communal grazing and livestock trade, have to be controlled. In 1998 PI animals were identified in 7.5% of affiliated herds of herd book breeders. During the voluntary program, the majority of the 2455 herd book breeders who actively participated in the BVDV program had cleared up their herds. Hence, in 2005 only nine infected herds (0.36%) remained under clearance. These data show that BVDV control can be achieved at the farm level without a nation-wide BVDV eradication program. A federal law was passed in 2004, obligating all herd owners to follow the BVDV eradication program. Between 2005 and 2007, the number of herds with a certified BVDV-free status increased from 7931 to 9952 (2006) and 11,166 (2007), respectively. Currently (2008), 11,017 of 12,031 existing herds have been certified as BVDV-free herds (91.57%). Nearly all certified BVDV-free dairy herds can now be monitored by testing milk samples because the cows have no antibodies to BVDV. This signifies a marked improvement since 1998, when 46% of the 5024 tested dairy herds had a high level of BVDV antibodies in bulk tank milk. Total eradication of BVDV-infected herds will need a further 1 or 2 years.


pmid: 24950191
title: Stability of the resistance to the thiosemicarbazone derived from 5,6-dimethoxy-1-indanone, a non-nucleoside polymerase inhibitor of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is the prototype Pestivirus. BVDV infection is distributed worldwide and causes serious problems for the livestock industry. The thiosemicarbazone of 5,6-dimethoxy-1-indanone (TSC) is a non-nucleoside polymerase inhibitor (NNI) of BVDV. All TSC-resistant BVDV variants (BVDV-TSCr T1-5) present an N264D mutation in the NS5B gene (RdRp) whereas the variant BVDV-TSCr T1 also presents an NS5B A392E mutation. In the present study, we carried out twenty passages of BVDV-TSCr T1-5 in MDBK cells in the absence of TSC to evaluate the stability of the resistance. The viral populations obtained (BVDV R1-5) remained resistant to the antiviral compound and conserved the mutations in NS5B associated with this phenotype. Along the passages, BVDV R2, R3 and R5 presented a delay in the production of cytopathic effect that correlated with a decrease in cell apoptosis and intracellular accumulation of viral RNA. The complete genome sequences that encode for NS2 to NS5B, Npro and Erns were analyzed. Additional mutations were detected in the NS5B of BVDV R1, R3 and R4. In both BVDV R2 and R3, most of the mutations found were localized in NS5A, whereas in BVDV R5, the only mutation fixed was NS5A V177A. These results suggest that mutations in NS5A could alter BVDV cytopathogenicity. In conclusion, the stability of the resistance to TSC may be due to the fixation of different compensatory mutations in each BVDV-TSCr. During their replication in a TSC-free medium, some virus populations presented a kind of interaction with the host cell that resembled a persistent infection: decreased cytopathogenicity and viral genome synthesis. This is the first report on the stability of antiviral resistance and on the evolution of NNI-resistant BVDV variants. The results obtained for BVDV-TSCr could also be applied for other NNIs.


pmid: 15610726
title: Retrospective genome analysis of a live vaccine strain of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: A live bovine viral diarrhea (BVDV) vaccine, marketed as a derivate of the Oregon C24V strain, was used between the end of the 1960s and the beginning of the 1990s in Central Europe. Since laboratory investigations of mucosal disease cases in vaccinated animals suggested recombinations between the vaccine and wild type variants of BVDV, and recombinational nucleotide sequences seemed distinct from BVDV Oregon C24V, the aim of the present retrospective study was to analyze the genomes of pre-registration (termed here BVDV-Xpre) and of marketed (BVDV-X) batches of the vaccine. The results of the complete genome analysis of BVDV-Xpre confirmed that the original virus strain used at the start of the vaccine production was Oregon C24V. Surprisingly, the analysis of the complete nucleotide sequence of the BVDV-X marketed vaccine revealed that this strain belongs to the BVDV 1b subgroup, with a 93.7% nucleotide sequence homology to BVDV reference strain Osloss. The homology to BVDV Oregon C24V was significantly lower (77.4%), and a thorough sequence scanning showed that the genome of BVDV-X had not derived from Oregon C24V. These data indicate the very likely scenario that a strain different to Oregon C24V was picked up during the in vitro or in vivo passages for vaccine development. Despite of the virus-switch, the BVDV-X vaccine continuously maintained its innocuity and efficacy, as proven by the regular quality testing data, and the presence of the foreign virus remained unnoticed over many years. The results of this work emphasize that the contamination of commercially available live vaccines with exogenous BVDV strains is a real risk factor, and a unequivocal analysis, including molecular methods, is needed to verify their authenticity.


pmid: 12458175
title: Genetic diversity of recent bovine viral diarrhoea viruses from the southeast of Austria (Styria)
abstract: To characterise the bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) isolates circulating in the southeastern region of Austria, namely in the province of Styria, 71 blood samples collected between 1998 and 2000 from persistently infected cattle in 62 herds were subjected to genetic typing. For this, 288bp fragments from the 5' untranslated region (5'-UTR) were amplified by polymerase chain reaction after reverse transcription (RT-PCR). The products were sequenced and used for phylogenetic analysis. Seventy virus isolates were typed as BVDV species 1 (BVDV-1). Only one isolate was typed as BVDV species 2 (BVDV-2), representing the first isolate of this pestivirus genotype found in Austria. In addition, phylogenetic analysis revealed that viruses belonging to five genetic groups within BVDV-1 are circulating in Styria. Most viruses (53) were found in group BVDV-1f, nine viruses in BVDV-1h, four viruses in BVDV-1b, three viruses in BVDV-1d and one virus in BVDV-1g. No virus was found in genetic group BVDV-1a, which is dominant in the UK and widely distributed in USA. Likewise, the BVDV isolates predominating in a neighbouring country, namely Germany, belonged to different genogroups than those circulating in Styria. We conclude that in a particular region and environment certain BVDV-1 genetic groups predominate. New groups, including BVDV-2, can be introduced, e.g. by trade of animals. The low incidence of BVDV-2 in Styria is in concert with the sporadic occurrence of these viruses in other regions of Europe.


pmid: 19922743
title: Transmission of bovine viral diarrhea virus among white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus)
abstract: Cattle persistently infected (PI) with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a pestivirus in the family Flaviviridae, are an important source of viral transmission to susceptible hosts. Persistent BVDV infections have been identified in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), the most abundant free-ranging ruminant in North America. As PI deer shed BVDV similarly to PI cattle, maintenance of BVDV within white-tailed deer populations may be possible. To date, intraspecific transmission of BVDV in white-tailed deer has not been evaluated, which prompted this study. Six pregnant white-tailed deer were captured in the first trimester of pregnancy and cohabitated with a PI white-tailed deer. Cohabitation with the PI deer resulted in BVDV infection in all does, as indicated by seroconversion. All does gave birth to live fawns and no reproductive losses were observed. At birth, evidence of BVDV infection was identified in two singlet fawns, of which one was determined to be PI by repeated serum reverse transcription nested PCR, whole blood virus isolation and immunohistochemistry. This study demonstrates for the first time that BVDV transmission may occur among white-tailed deer. The birth of a PI fawn through contact to a PI white-tailed deer indicates that under appropriate circumstances, BVDV may be maintained in white-tailed deer by congenital infection.


pmid: 14599780
title: Genetic heterogeneity of bovine viral diarrhoea viruses from Spain
abstract: Forty-four bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) isolates collected from the north of Spain between 1989 and 2000 were characterised at the molecular level. For 24 of these isolates the entire N(pro) gene sequence was determined. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that 21 isolates belong to subgroup BVDV-1b, while two BVDV-1c isolates and one BVDV-1h isolate were found. Furthermore, 20 additional virus isolates were analysed by differential reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and classified as BVDV-1. The results from our study demonstrate that BVDV-1b is the most prevalent subgroup present in bovine dairy herds of Spain, while there is no evidence for the presence of BVDV-2.


pmid: 15767420
title: Acid-resistant bovine pestivirus requires activation for pH-triggered fusion during entry
abstract: The route of internalization of the pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was studied by using different chemical and biophysical inhibitors of endocytosis. Expression of the dominant-negative mutant Dyn(K44A) of the GTPase dynamin in MDBK cells, as well as the treatment of the cells with chlorpromazine and beta-methyl-cyclodextrin inhibited BVDV entry. BVDV infection was also abolished by potassium (K+) depletion, hyperosmolarity, and different inhibitors of endosomal acidification. We conclude that BVDV likely enters the cell by clathrin-dependent endocytosis and that acidification initiates fusion with the endosomal membrane. Further studies revealed that BVDV was unable to undergo "fusion from without" at low pH. The finding that low pH is not sufficient to force adsorbed BVDV into fusion with the plasma membrane is compatible with the remarkable resistance of pestiviruses to inactivation by low pH. The importance of the abundant intra- and intermolecular disulfide bonds in BVDV glycoproteins for virus stability was studied by the use of reducing agents. The combination of dithiothreitol and acidic pH led to partial inactivation of BVDV and allowed fusion from without at low efficiency. Evidence is provided here that acid-resistant BVDV is destabilized during endocytosis to become fusogenic at an endosomal acidic pH. We suggest that destabilization of the virion occurs by breakage of disulfide bonds in the glycoproteins by an unknown mechanism.


pmid: 19931181
title: Reactivity and prevalence of neutralizing antibodies against Japanese strains of bovine viral diarrhea virus subgenotypes
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) field isolates show genetic and antigenic diversity. At least 14 subgenotypes of BVDV-1 and 4 of BVDV-2 have been identified in Artiodactyla worldwide. Of these, 6 subgenotypes of BVDV-1 and 1 of BVDV-2 have been isolated in Japan. Previously, we reported that each subgenotype virus expresses different antigenic characteristics. Here we investigated the reactivity of neutralizing antibodies against representative strains of Japanese BVDV subgenotypes using sera from 266 beef cattle to estimate the prevalence of this epidemic virus among cattle in Japan. Antibody titers at concentrations at least 4-fold higher than antibodies against other subgenotype viruses were considered subgenotype specific. Subgenotype-specific antibodies were detected from 117 (80.7%) of 145 sera samples (69.7% against BVDV-1a, 1.4% against BVDV-1b, 8.3% against BVDV-1c, and 1.4% against BVDV-2a). The results suggest that neutralization tests are useful in estimating currently epidemic subgenotypes of BVDV in the field.


pmid: 14582747
title: Genetic heterogeneity of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in Italy
abstract: The genetic characteristics, of 38 field isolates of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) collected in 1999 from sick or healthy and persistently infected cattle of dairy farms situated in northern Italy, were investigated. A partial 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) sequence of each isolate was determined and a phylogenetic analysis was performed. All the isolates were classified as belonging to the BVDV-1 genotype and could be assigned to different BVDV-1 groups, namely BVDV-1b (n = 20), BVDV-1d (n = 6) and BVDV-1e (n = 10). Two remaining isolates could be classified as BVDV-1f and BVDV-1h, respectively. These results provided evidence for genetic heterogeneity of BVDV in Italy, and contribute to a better knowledge of the circulation of BVDV strains, and to their classification.


pmid: 29928264
title: Identification of Conserved Amino Acid Substitutions During Serial Infection of Pregnant Cattle and Sheep With Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an economically important pathogen of cattle that can also infect a wide range of domestic and wild species including sheep, goats, deer, camelids, and pigs. BVDV isolates are genetically highly diverse and previous work demonstrated that many substitutions were introduced in the viral genome during acute infections in cattle. In contrast, only limited information exists regarding changes occurring during BVDV infections in species other than cattle. The purpose of this study was to determine the changes introduced in the open reading frame (ORF) of the BVDV genome during serial infection of pregnant cattle and sheep with an isolate of bovine origin. Serial experimental inoculations were performed in six pregnant heifers and six pregnant ewes using BVDV-1b isolate AU526 in the first heifer and ewe, and serum from the preceding acutely infected dam thereafter. Complete ORF sequences were determined for 23 BVDV-1b isolates including AU526, one isolate from each pregnant dam, and one isolate from each BVDV-positive offspring born to these dams. Sequence comparison revealed that greater numbers of substitutions occurred during serial infection of pregnant sheep than of pregnant cattle. Furthermore, multiple host-specific amino acid changes were gradually introduced and conserved. These changes were more abundant in ovine isolates and occurred primarily in the E2 coding region. These results suggest that BVDV infections in heterologous species may serve as a significant source of viral genetic diversity and may be associated with adaptive changes.


pmid: 21398436
title: Change in predominance of Bovine viral diarrhea virus subgenotypes among samples submitted to a diagnostic laboratory over a 20-year time span
abstract: Although the causative agent of bovine viral diarrhea was initially categorized as 1 species, phylogenetic analysis revealed that these viruses belong to 2 different species, Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1) and BVDV-2, with 2-11 subgenotypes within each species. Distribution of species and subgenotypes has been shown to vary with geographic region. Whether distribution shifts over time is not known. Surveys conducted between 1994 and 2008 reported 3 subgenotypes circulating among cattle in the United States: BVDV-1a, BVDV-1b, and BVDV-2a. The average percent prevalence of BVDV-1a, BVDV-1b, and BVDV-2a strains reported in surveys before 2001 were 21%, 43%, and 36%, respectively. Surveys conducted on viruses isolated after 2001 reported decreasing percentages of BVDV-1a and BVDV-2a strains, with BVDV-1b strains accounting for 75-100% of samples. Comparison of these surveys is confounded by differences in geographic location, collection methods, and sample type used in the survey. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether the prevalence of BVDV subgenotypes shifted in samples collected from the same geographic region and by the same laboratory over time. BVDV strains isolated in years 1988, 1998, and 2008, at the Texas Veterinary Medical Diagnostic Laboratory, Amarillo, Texas, were genotyped, and the prevalence of BVDV-1a, BVDV-1b, and BVDV-2a strains were determined. Typing, on the basis of phylogenetic analysis, was done on 148 samples. The strongest trend detected among these samples was a pronounced decrease in the number of BVDV-1a strains over time.


pmid: 8892907
title: Cytopathogenicity of a pestivirus correlates with a 27-nucleotide insertion
abstract: Cytopathogenic (cp) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strains are generated in cattle persistently infected with noncytopathogenic (noncp) BVDV.cp BVDV strains are considered crucial for the development of fatal mucosal disease. Comparative analysis of cp and noncp BVDV strains isolated from one animal suffering from mucosal disease revealed that the genomes of the cp BVDV strain (CP7) and the corresponding noncp BVDV strain (NCP7) are highly homologous. However, only the genome of CP7 contains an insertion of 27 nucleotides in the NS2 coding region. The inserted sequence represents a duplication of bases 4064 to 4090 of the viral genome, located between the formerly neighboring nucleotides 4353 and 4354. Parts of the viral polyproteins of CP7 and NCP7 were expressed in the T7 vaccinia virus system. These studies revealed that the insertion identified in the CP7 genome is necessary and sufficient for the induction of NS2-3 cleavage. Since the expression of NS3 is strictly correlated to cp BVDV, the insertion identified in the genome of BVDV CP7 represents most likely the relevant mutation leading to the evolvement of CP7 from NCP7.


pmid: 24318456
title: Studies on genetic diversity of bovine viral diarrhea viruses in Danish cattle herds
abstract: Scandinavian countries have successfully pursued bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) eradication without the use of vaccines. In Denmark, control and eradication of BVDV were achieved during the last two decades, but occasionally new BVDV infections are detected in some Danish cattle herds. The aim of this study was to determine recent BVDV subtypes isolated from 4 Danish herds (A, B, C, and D) isolated in 2009-2012 and to analyze the genetic variation of these isolates within the same herd and its relation with those of other herds. The results showed that three herds (B, C, D) were BVDV 1-b and only one herd (herd A) was BVDV 1-d, no other subtypes were detected. The deduced E2 amino acids result showed a high identity percent (99-100 %) between isolates originating from the same herd, but with higher variation compared to isolates of the other herds. Some of these new Danish strains have closer relationship to BVDVs from outside Denmark than to older Danish strains indicating that these are new introductions to Denmark. In conclusion, BVDV-1 subtypes recently detected in Denmark were only subtypes 1b and 1d, and BVDV infections established in a herd is genetically stable over a long time period.


pmid: 1965635
title: Diagnosis of bovine viral diarrhea virus infection using monoclonal antibodies
abstract: The monoclonal antibody (MAb) D89 against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was used in conjunction with fluorescein-conjugated anti-mouse immunoglobulin in an indirect fluorescent antibody (IFA) procedure on frozen tissue sections and cell culture. During the 2-year study, BVDV was isolated from specimens submitted in 460 cases. The D89 Mab detected all but 2 BVDV isolates, both cytopathic. In 316 of the cases in which BVD virus was detected by IFA, specimens were inoculated on bovine turbinate cells and examined for BVDV antigens at 3-5, 10, and 20 days postinoculation. The BVDV was detected in 238/316 cases (75%) after 3-5 days incubation. The remainder were not detected until 10 or 20 days postinoculation. Virus isolation was enhanced in the early test if plates were centrifuged at the time of inoculation. Results suggest that D89 monoclonal antibody is a suitable diagnostic reagent for the detection of BVDV isolated from diagnostic specimens. The D89 MAb can be used for the detection of BVDV in both cell culture and tissues. Combination of D89 with another BVDV MAb (C17) did not improve the ability to detect BVDV in tissues compared to using D89 only, and the combined Mab's resulted in an increase in nonspecific fluorescence when used on tissues. Although pooling of different BVDV monoclonal antibodies may be necessary to detect all strains of BVDV in cell culture, pooling should be used with caution on tissues. Early detection of BVDV in cell culture by this IFA procedure permits faster confirmation of BVDV diagnosis when compared to the usual routine testing for noncytopathic BVDV at termination of first passage in cell culture.


pmid: 20224075
title: Prevalence and antigenic differences observed between Bovine viral diarrhea virus subgenotypes isolated from cattle in Australia and feedlots in the southwestern United States
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is divided into 2 different species within the Pestivirus genus, BVDV type 1 (BVDV-1) and BVDV type 2 (BVDV-2). Further phylogenetic analysis has revealed subgenotype groupings within the 2 types. Thus far, 12 BVDV-1 subgenotypes (a-l) and 2 BVDV-2 subgenotypes (a and b) have been identified. The purpose of the current study was to determine the prevalence of BVDV subgenotypes in the United States and Australia and to determine if there are detectable antigenic differences between the prevalent subgenotypes. To determine prevalence, phylogenetic analysis was performed on 2 blinded panels of isolates consisting of 351 viral isolates provided by the Elizabeth Macarthur Laboratory, New South Wales, and 514 viral isolates provided by Oklahoma State University. Differences were observed in the prevalence of BVDV subgenotypes between the United States (BVDV-1b most prevalent subgenotype) and Australia (BVDV-1c most prevalent subgenotype). To examine antigenic differences between the subgenotypes identified in samples from the United States and Australia, polyclonal antisera was produced in goats by exposing them at 3-week intervals to 2 noncytopathic and 1 cytopathic strain of either BVDV-1a, BVDV-1b, BVDV-1c, BVDV-2a, or Border disease virus (BDV). Virus neutralization (VN) assays were then performed against 3 viruses from each of the 5 subgenotypes. Comparison of VN results suggests that there are antigenic differences between BVDV strains belonging to different subgenotypes. The present study establishes a foundation for further studies examining whether vaccine protection can be improved by basing vaccines on the BVDV subgenotypes prevalent in the region in which the vaccine is to be used.


pmid: 22362935
title: Experimental co-infection of pigs with Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 and Porcine circovirus-2
abstract: The role of Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in the development of Porcine circovirus-2 (PCV-2)-associated disease (PCVAD) was investigated in 2 experimental studies. In the first, separate groups of germ-free pigs were inoculated with filtered tissue homogenate (from diseased pigs) containing PCV-2b + BVDV-1-like virus (group 1), PCV-2a + BVDV-1-like virus (group 4), BVDV-1-like virus only (group 3), or PCV-2b + BVDV-1-like virus following a BVDV vaccination protocol (group 2). This last group was used to test if BVDV vaccination would prevent clinical PCVAD in this model. Many of the inoculated pigs had mild multisystemic inflammation consistent with classic PCVAD. One vaccinated, dually inoculated pig had acute respiratory distress followed by death at 21 days postinfection. Lesions in this pig resembled the severe form of PCVAD observed in the field since the fall of 2004, suggesting a role of ruminant pestiviruses and/or vaccination in the development of this disease. In the second study, cesarean-derived, colostrum-deprived pigs were inoculated with PCV-2b and a cytopathic strain of BVDV-1 (cpBVDV-NADL) either alone or in combination. Clinical signs of PCVAD were seen in a single animal inoculated only with PCV-2b. This pig had growth retardation followed by acute respiratory distress leading to death 30 days postinfection. Pulmonary lesions in this animal were similar to those seen in the pig that died in the first study. Infection with cpBVDV-NADL did not enhance PCV-2b replication or lesion formation.


pmid: 15690945
title: Genetic and clinical analyses of bovine viral diarrhea virus isolates from dairy operations in the United States of America
abstract: To assess the prevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) on the basis of the genotype and clinical signs, isolates from 16 dairy herds (bulk milk samples) and 37 BVDV-infected cattle were examined. Isolates for this study were selected from submissions that contained an adequate clinical history. A part of the E2 gene of BVDV from these isolates was amplified by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. From the nucleotide sequence of the amplified products, phylogenetic analyses were performed and genotypes or subgenotypes were identified. Forty percent of the selected field isolates were BVDV-2, and 60% were BVDV-1. Eighty-one percent of BVDV-1 isolates were determined to be the BVDV-1b subgenotype. BVDV-1b and BVDV-2 formed more closely related clusters in each group than did the BVDV-1a isolates. There was no obvious association of any genotype or subgenotype with geographical localization or clinical manifestations. A higher prevalence of BVDV-2 infection was found in the United States than in other countries. BVDV-1a has been thought of as a prototype of BVDV; however, there were fewer isolations of BVDV-1a than of other subgenotypes of BVDV. Phylogenetic analyses of BVDV isolates using the E2 region of the genome generated results similar to those of studies done in the United States using the 5' untranslated region.


pmid: 18182515
title: Evaluation of hunter-harvested white-tailed deer for evidence of bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in Alabama
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is one of the most relevant pathogens affecting today's cattle industries. Although great strides have been made in understanding this virus in cattle, little is known about the role of wildlife in the epidemiology of BVDV. While persistently infected cattle are the most important reservoir, free-ranging ungulates may become infected with BVDV as demonstrated by serosurveys and experimental infections. Therefore, free-ranging wildlife may maintain BVDV as the result of an independent cycle and may serve as a reservoir for the virus. Systematic studies on prevalence of BVDV-specific antibodies or frequency of persistent BVDV infection in North American wildlife are sparse, and no information is available from the southeastern United States. The objective of this study was to evaluate blood and skin samples from hunter-harvested white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) for evidence of BVDV infection. Virus-neutralizing antibodies were detected in 2 of 165 serum samples. Skin biopsy immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed on samples from 406 deer using a BVDV-specific monoclonal antibody (MAb) (15c5), and BVDV antigen was detected in one sample. A similar IHC staining pattern was obtained using a second BVDV MAb (3.12F1). Viral antigen distribution in the skin sample of this deer resembled that found in persistently infected cattle and in a previously described persistently infected white-tailed deer; thus, the deer was presumed to be persistently infected. Evidence of BVDV infection in free-ranging white-tailed deer should encourage further systematic investigation of the prevalence of BVDV in wildlife.


pmid: 24347372
title: Autophagy during early stages contributes to bovine viral diarrhea virus replication in MDBK cells
abstract: Autophagy (or autophagocytosis) is an essential and precise control process by which cells degrade unnecessary or dysfunctional cellular components or organelles in the cytoplasm in response to nutrient depletion, exogenous pathogens, or other stimuli. This process results in the removal of damaged or surplus organelles and macromolecular complexes via a lysosome-dependent mechanism. Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a ssRNA virus of the Flaviviridae family (genus Pestivirus). BVDV infection results in major economic losses due to poor reproductive performance and poor calf performance in cattle herds. In our previous studies, we have shown that BVDV NADL infection significantly increases autophagy in MDBK cells. To further define the interactions between autophagy and BVDV infection, we investigated the effects of autophagy on the replication of BVDV NADL. The findings showed that autophagy was inhibited by treatment with 3-methyladenine (3-MA) or wortmannin and that the knockdown of LC3 and Beclin1 using lentivirus-mediated RNA interference (RNAi) suppressed BVDV NADL replication. In contrast, the findings showed the replication of BVDV NADL was significantly increased by treatment with the autophagy inducer rapamycin within 18 h post-infection (pi). However, the mRNA levels of BVDV NADL 5'UTRs showed a downward trend after 18 h pi, and this effect was reversed by chloroquine treatment. Therefore, we inferred that infection with BVDV NADL increases autophagy, which in turn favors BVDV NADL replication at early stages.


pmid: 23890673
title: Predominance of bovine viral diarrhea virus 1b and 1d subtypes during eight years of survey in Poland
abstract: The genetic diversity of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was determined from 65 animals persistently infected with BVDV and diagnosed between 2004 and 2011 in Poland. The samples originated from 28 herds in 12 provinces, where over 90% of the whole cattle population of Poland is reared. Phylogenetic analysis based on the fragments of two genomic regions of BVDV namely, 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) and N(pro) was performed. All the BVDV isolates belonged to BVDV-1 species and were further divided into four subtypes. There were 31 viruses of BVDV-1b subtype (47.6%) present in 12 herds, 24 of BVDV-1d subtype (36.9%) in 9 herds, 8 of BVDV-1f subtype (12.3%) in 5 herds and 2 BVDV-1g subtype (3.0%) in 2 herds. Neither BVDV-1a subtype, nor BVDV-2 species or any atypical bovine pestivirus were found among isolates tested. Despite increasing import of live cattle in the recent years, genetic diversity of Polish BVDV isolates was rather low.


pmid: 26859238
title: One year duration of immunity of the modified live bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 and type 2 and bovine herpesvirus-1 fractions of Vista® Once SQ vaccine
abstract: Three studies were performed to determine the duration of immunity of the bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 and type 2 (BVDV-1 and BVDV-2) and bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1) fractions of a commercially prepared modified-live vaccine. Vista® Once SQ (Vista®) vaccine contains five modified-live viruses, BVDV-1, BVDV-2, BHV-1, bovine respiratory syncytial virus, and bovine parainfluenza 3 virus, and two modified-live bacteria, Pasteurella multocida and Mannheimia haemolytica. For all three studies, calves were administered a single dose of vaccine or placebo vaccine subcutaneously, and were challenged with one of the three virulent viruses at least one year following vaccination. Calves were evaluated daily following challenge for clinical signs of disease associated with viral infection, nasal swab samples were evaluated for virus shedding, and serum was tested for neutralizing antibodies. Following the BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 challenges, whole blood was evaluated for white blood cell counts, and for the BVDV-2 study, whole blood was also evaluated for platelet counts. Calves vaccinated with BVDV type 1a, were protected from challenge with BVDV type 1b, and had significant reductions in clinical disease, fever, leukopenia, and virus shedding compared to control calves. Vaccinated calves in the BVDV-2 study were protected from clinical disease, mortality, fever, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and virus shedding compared to controls. Vaccinated calves in the BHV-1 study were protected from clinical disease and fever, and had significantly reduced duration of nasal virus shedding. These three studies demonstrated that a single administration of the Vista® vaccine to healthy calves induces protective immunity against BVDV-1, BVDV-2 and BHV-1 that lasts at least one year following vaccination.


pmid: 18776103
title: Persistent Bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in wild cervids of Colorado
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a significant viral pathogen of domestic cattle. Worldwide, there is evidence of BVDV exposure and infection in wild ungulates; however, the frequency and significance of such events are unknown. To determine the prevalence and distribution of Colorado deer, elk, and moose persistently infected (PI) with BVDV, a cross-sectional study was conducted using full-thickness ear tissue samples collected from animals presented to the Colorado Division of Wildlife for chronic wasting disease surveillance in the 2005-2006 hunting season. Tissue from 5,597 harvested animals (2,934 mule deer, 2,516 elk, 141 white-tailed deer, and 6 moose) was paraffin-embedded and stained for BVDV using immunohistochemistry. A single adult male mule deer had BVDV antigen in the skin; staining distribution was consistent with that seen in PI cattle. Skin and lymph node were also positive for viral RNA by polymerase chain reaction, and the virus was determined to be a type 1. The prevalence of BVDV PI cervids in Colorado is very low. However, the identification of a naturally infected adult PI animal in the wild suggests that the virus infects free-ranging populations. The source of the BVDV is unknown and is assumed to be spillover from cattle or maintenance within wildlife populations. Consideration of a potential wild animal reservoir is important in the design and implementation of BVDV management practices in cattle.


pmid: 16475521
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus in alpaca: abortion and persistent infection
abstract: An alpaca herd in eastern Ontario experienced vague signs of illness, including anorexia and lethargy in 9 animals, 2.5 months after the addition of a chronically ill cria and his dam to the farm. Subsequently 2 alpaca had early pregnancy loss; one aborted at 5.5 months gestation and the other at 7 months gestation. Seventeen were found to have serum antibody to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), with highest titers to BVDV type 1. The fetus that was aborted at 5.5 months gestation, 3 months after the clinical outbreak, was found to be positive for BVDV on immunohistochemical staining, and noncytopathic BVDV type 1b was isolated. Of the 13 cria born alive that season, a single male underweight alpaca cria, born 9 months after the clinical illnesses, was infected with BVDV type 1b. The cria was positive for BVDV at birth, at 3 and 26 days of age and continued to be positive for noncytopathic BVDV using virus isolation, nested reverse transcription PCR, antigen detection ELISA, and immunohistochemical staining until euthanasia at 46 days of age. The cria remained serum antibody negative to both BVDV type 1 and type 2. A diagnosis of persistent infection was made. This is the first report describing persistent infection with BVDV in an alpaca cria.


pmid: 19997866
title: Entry of bovine viral diarrhea virus into ovine cells occurs through clathrin-dependent endocytosis and low pH-dependent fusion
abstract: Although mechanisms of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) entry into bovine cells have been elucidated, little is known concerning pestivirus entry and receptor usage in ovine cells. In this study, we determined the entry mechanisms of BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 in sheep fetal thymus cells. Both BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 infections were inhibited completely by chlorpromazine, beta-methyl cyclodextrin, sucrose, bafilomycin A1, chloroquine, and ammonium chloride. Simultaneous presence of reducing agent and low pH resulted in marked loss of BVDV infectivity. Moreover, BVDV was unable to fuse with ovine cell membrane by the presence of reducing agent or low pH alone, while combination of both led to fusion at low efficiency. Furthermore, sheep fetal thymus cells acutely infected with BVDV-1 or BVDV-2 were found protected from heterologous BVDV infection. Taken together, our results showed for the first time that entry of both BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 into ovine cells occurred through clathrin-dependent endocytosis, endosomal acidification, and low pH-dependent fusion following an activation step, besides suggesting the involvement of a common ovine cellular receptor during attachment and entry.


pmid: 21647344
title: Isolation and genetic analysis of bovine viral diarrhea virus from infected cattle in indiana
abstract: Species and biotype distribution was determined in 44 bovine viral diarrhea virus- (BVDV-) positive samples submitted to the Animal Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (ADDL) in Indiana during 2006-2008. BVDV RNA was detected in the 5'-untranslated region and N(pro) region using reverse transcriptase PCR followed by sequencing analysis of the PCR product. Additionally, cases were classified into one of six categories according to history and/or lesions: acute symptomatic, hemorrhagic, respiratory distress, reproductive, persistent infection (PI), and mucosal disease (MD). Of 44 BVDV-positive samples, 33 were noncytopathic (ncp), 10 were cytopathic (cp), and one presented both ncp and cp biotypes. Sequencing analysis demonstrated that all samples belonged to BVDV-1a, BVDV-1b, or BVDV-2. The most common isolate was ncp BVDV-1b, (44%) followed by ncp BVDV-2a (24%). Among the six categories, respiratory clinical signs were the most common (36%) followed by PI (25%) and MD (16%).


pmid: 16243404
title: Assessing economic and social pressure for the control of bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: The objective of this paper is to present a preliminary assessment of variation in the economic impact of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) at dairy farm level between a sample of nations within the EU and hence assess differences in pressure to respond to this disease that may be impeding progress in control and hence restricting collective benefits from healthier livestock. We used a questionnaire to obtain national average values of key epidemiological and economic parameters for a typical dairy farm from BVDV experts in the countries concerned. These parameters were converted into assessments of economic impact using a computer simulation model. Uncontrolled output losses for a BVDV-naïve herd with virus introduced in year 1 of a 10-year epidemic represented 22, 7, 8, 5, 8 and 20% of the BVDV-free annuity for the UK, Northern Portugal, Holland, Norway, Italy and Germany, respectively. Differences between countries will be widened by differences in the risk of acquiring BVDV. These will be much reduced in countries, such as Norway that have a national BVDV eradication programme. Farmers in such countries can therefore justify spending much less on maintaining BVDV-free status than BVDV-free farms in other countries. This result illustrates the paradox that in countries where BVDV prevalence is high, farmers have least to gain from unilateral BVDV eradication because of the high cost of maintaining freedom from the disease. We discuss this issue in the light of increasing recognition at international level of the importance of BVDV control.


pmid: 15018659
title: Induction of T lymphocytes specific for bovine viral diarrhea virus in calves with maternal antibody
abstract: Passive antibody to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) acquired through colostrum intake may interfere with the development of a protective immune response by calves to this virus. The objective of this study was to determine if calves, with a high level of maternal antibody to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), develop CD4(+), CD8(+), or gammadelta T lymphocyte responses to BVDV in the absence of a measurable humoral immune response. Colostrum or milk replacer fed calves were challenged with virulent BVDV at 2-5 weeks of age and/or after maternal antibody had waned. Calves exposed to BVDV while passive antibody levels were high did not mount a measurable humoral immune response to BVDV. However, compared to nonexposed animals, these animals had CD4(+), CD8(+), and gammadelta T lymphocytes that were activated by BVDV after exposure to in vitro BVDV. The production of IFNgamma by lymphocytes after in vitro BVDV exposure was also much greater in lymphocytes from calves exposed to BVDV in the presence of maternal antibody compared to the nonexposed calves. These data indicate that calves exposed to BVDV while maternal antibody levels are high can develop antigen specific CD4(+), CD8(+), and gammadelta T lymphocytes in the absence of an active antibody response. A manuscript presented separately demonstrates that the calves with T lymphocytes specific for BVDV in this study were also protected from virulent BVDV genotype 2 challenge after maternal antibody became undetectable.


pmid: 23022681
title: Increased phylogenetic diversity of bovine viral diarrhoea virus type 1 isolates in England and Wales since 2001
abstract: Currently, there are two recognised genotypes of Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), type 1 and type 2. These genotypes are divided into subtypes based on phylogenetic analysis, namely a-p for BVDV-1 and a-c for BVDV-2. Within this study, the genetic heterogeneity of BVDV-1 in England and Wales was investigated and compared to the situation in 1996/1997. Viral RNA was extracted from 316 blood samples collected between 2004 and 2009 that were previously identified as BVDV-1 positive. A region of the 5' untranslated region (UTR) was amplified by RT-PCR and the PCR products were sequenced. Phylogenetic analysis of the 5'UTR demonstrated the existence of five subtypes of BVDV-1 circulating in England and Wales, namely BVDV-1a (244 samples), BVDV-1b (50), BVDV-1e (3), BVDV-1f (1) and BVDV-1i (18). Phylogenetic analysis of the nucleotide sequence for the N(pro) region of the viral genome supported the classification obtained with the 5'UTR. Given the fact that only three subtypes were detected in 1999 this report supports the notion that the restocking of cattle from continental Europe, after the mass culling during the Foot-and-Mouth outbreak in 2001 and slaughter of cattle due to bovine tuberculosis infection, has increased the genetic diversity of BVDV-1 subtypes in England and Wales in the past 10 years.


pmid: 18624254
title: Availability of oral swab sample for the detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) gene from the cattle persistently infected with BVDV
abstract: Bovine nasal and oral discharges were used as samples for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) gene detection. Viral genes in serum (S), nasal discharge (N) and oral discharge (O) were quantified with real-time polymerase chain reaction using SYBR Green by the relative quantification method, and findings were compared among samples. Although the quantity of the BVDV gene in S was greater than those in N and O, all samples were available to identify persistently infected (PI) cattle with BVDV by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The swab samples were able to be stored for a few days at 4 degrees C with a little decrease of amplification signal in RT-PCR. Oral swab sampling was easier than nasal swab sampling, and was also less uncomfortable for the cattle than other sampling methods without pain or unnecessary retention. This sampling method can be performed without any special technique and equipment. Therefore, the oral swab sampling method is useful for screening to detect BVDV PI cattle by RT-PCR.


pmid: 11574174
title: Distribution pattern of bovine viral diarrhoea virus strains in intensive cattle herds in Italy
abstract: The genetic variation of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was studied by comparative nucleotide sequence analysis of 26 Italian field strains collected during the period 1995-2000 in 18 cattle herds. A fragment within the 5'-untranslated region (UTR) was sequenced directly from gel-purified products obtained by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. BVDV-1b (n=14), -1c (n=1), -1d (n=1) and BVDV-2 (n=2) strains have been isolated. Most herds were infected by BVDV-1b. Pairwise similarity and cluster analysis of the remaining BVDV-1 isolates (n=8) did not provide a clear-cut assignation to defined BVDV-1 groups. This is the first time that a BVDV-2 isolation was reported in Italy. Among BVDV-2 reference strains, Italian BVDV-2 isolates showed the highest sequence similarity with the CD87 strain. Both BVDV-2 strains were isolated in two healthy animals from different herds. The 5'-UTR sequence of one of the two BVDV-2 strains was identical to a German BVDV field strain. Complete nucleotide homology was found only among BVDV strains isolated from the same herd, showing a herd-specific clustering. Moreover, 99.6% homology was observed between strains from herds linked by livestock trade. Despite the small number of BVDV isolates analysed, it revealed a high level of genetic diversity among Italian field BVDV strains.


pmid: 6287973
title: A microtiter test for detecting and titrating noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine cells free of noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus (NC-BVDV) treated with polyriboinosinic acid : polyribocytidylic acid (poly I:C) were protected against challenge with vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), whereas NC-BVDV-infected cells treated with poly I:C were not protected against VSV. An assay based on the ability of NC-BVDV to inhibit poly I:C protection of cells against VSV was developed and is herein referred to as PINBA (poly I:C for NC-BVDV assay). Noncytopathogenic BVDV was titrated as cytopathogenic strains except that several days after infection with NC-BVDV, the cultures were treated with poly I:C and VSV. Titration endpoints were reached 24 hours later. PINBA was standardized for amount of VSV, time of addition of poly I:C, and time NC-BVDV had to be present to obtain stable titration endpoints. PINBA also was useful for titrating virus neutralizing antibodies. Compared with the fluorescent antibody test, PINBA was less subjective for detection of NC-BVDV. Compared with the interference test in which NC-BVDV infected cultures are challenged with a cytopathogenic strain of BVDV, PINBA was more reliable. The technique described herein is a simple and practical microtiter method for titrating NC-BVDV and virus neutralizing antibodies and for the presumptive detection of NC-BVDV.


pmid: 24690167
title: Experimental infection of rabbits with bovine viral diarrhoea virus by a natural route of exposure
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is an important pathogen of cattle that can naturally infect a wide range of even-toed ungulates. Non-bovine hosts may represent reservoirs for the virus that have the potential to hamper BVDV eradication programs usually focused on cattle. Rabbits are very abundant in countries such as the United Kingdom or Australia and are often living on or near livestock pastures. Earlier reports indicated that rabbits can propagate BVDV upon intravenous exposure and that natural infection of rabbits with BVDV may occur but experimental proof of infection of rabbits by a natural route is lacking. Therefore, New Zealand White rabbits were exposed to a Scottish BVDV field strain intravenously, oro-nasally and by contaminating their hay with virus. None of the animals showed any clinical signs. However, the lymphoid organs from animals sacrificed at day five after exposure showed histological changes typical of transient infection with pestivirus. Most organ samples and some buffy coat samples were virus positive at day five but saliva samples remained negative. Development of antibodies was observed in all intravenously challenged animals, in all of the nebulised group and in four of six animals exposed to contaminated hay. To our knowledge this is the first report of BVDV propagation in a species other than ruminants or pigs after exposure to the virus by a natural route. However, to assess the role of rabbits as a potential reservoir for BVDV it remains to be determined whether persistent infection caused by intra-uterine infection is possible and whether BVDV is circulating in wild rabbit populations.


pmid: 22210133
title: Spatial and temporal reconstruction of bovine viral diarrhea virus genotype 1 dispersion in Italy
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a widespread and economically important pathogen of cattle; genetic typing of BVDV isolates distinguished two species, namely BVDV-1 and BVDV-2. BVDV-1 is the most widespread worldwide and it includes at least 11 subtypes. With the aim of clarifying the routes of circulation of BVDV-1 subtypes in an endemic area and in order to investigate the relationships between the genetic diversity of BVDV and its geographic distribution, a phylogenetic analysis of 5' untranslated region of Italian sequences was performed using a new Bayesian framework allowing the spatial-temporal reconstruction of the evolutionary dynamics of highly variable viruses. Our analyses suggested that different BVDV subtypes entered the North-Eastern part of Italy at different times within a time span between 23 and 7 years ago. The largest virus dispersion occurred between the mid 1990s and the early 2000s. A possible gravity-like dynamic of the infection, originating in larger animal population then following patterns of national commercial-flow, should be hypothesized.


pmid: 12485359
title: Foetal protection against bovine virus diarrhoea virus after two-step vaccination
abstract: In order to assess the efficacy of a two-step vaccination protocol with respect to foetal protection against transplacental infections with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) with special attention to BVDV-2 seronegative heifers were vaccinated with an inactivated BVDV-1 vaccine and boostered with a modified live BVDV-1 vaccine after 4 weeks. A second group was left unvaccinated as control. Between days 30 and 120 of pregnancy the heifers of both groups were intranasally challenged with a mixture of BVDV-1 and -2. All heifers of the vaccinated group gave birth to nine clinically healthy, seronegative (precolostral) and BVDV-free calves. In contrast in the control group four BVDV viraemic underdeveloped calves were born. Additionally, one calf was stillborn and another viraemic calf was not viable and died 2 days after birth. All six calves of the control group were viraemic with BVDV-2. This study demonstrated for the first time that two-step vaccination of breeding cattle with a modified live BVDV vaccine 4 weeks after application of an inactivated BVDV vaccine was capable of providing a foetal protection against transplacental infection with BVDV-2.


pmid: 2845636
title: Transmission of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) by artificial insemination (AI) with semen from a persistently-infected bull
abstract: Twelve heifers that did not have antibodies to bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) were inseminated with semen from a bull that was persistently infected with the virus and contained 10(4.0)-10(6.5) TCID50 0.1 ml-1. All 12 became infected, as indicated by seroconversion within 2 weeks of insemination. Four control heifers were inseminated with virus-free semen. The virus was not transmitted to these animals in spite of close contact with the heifers inseminated with the infected semen. All the heifers became pregnant and gave birth to clinically normal calves at term. However, one calf was born persistently infected with BVDV. After the birth of this persistently-infected calf the control heifers and their calves seroconverted. The study demonstrates that BVDV may be transmitted in cattle by artificial insemination (AI). Therefore entry of persistently-infected animals into AI centres should be prevented.


pmid: 10337243
title: Possible causes of diabetes mellitus in cattle infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: In cattle, we encountered insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) associated with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection. To estimate the correlation between IDDM and BVDV infection, the distribution of BVDV in the pancreas and islet-cell antibody (ICA) were investigated. The distribution of BVDV in the pancreas was examined by in situ hybridization using two oligonucleotide probes that recognized the gp25- and p14-coding regions of the BVDV gene. ICA was examined by indirect fluorescence antibody assay using the sera from affected cattle and pancreata from normal cattle. In the pancreata of all BVDV-infected cattle, including IDDM-complicated cattle, oligonucleotide probe hybridized portions were recognized. In short, BVDV genes were detected not only in IDDM-complicated cattle but also in uncomplicated cattle. Moreover, there was no hybridized portion in the islet cells. In BVDV-infected and IDDM-complicated cattle, ICA was frequently detected. On the other hand, ICA was not detected in BVDV-infected and IDDM uncomplicated cattle. These results suggest that IDDM associated with BVDV infection is not a direct effect of BVDV on islet cells. Therefore, as BVDV did not induce IDDM in any cases, it appears that BVDV does not induce IDDM directly, but rather may be an autoimmune disease induced by autoantibodies against islet cells.


pmid: 16025238
title: A 45-nucleotide insertion in the NS2 gene is responsible for the cytopathogenicity of a bovine viral diarrhoea virus strain
abstract: Cytopathogenicity (cp) markers have recently been investigated in the genomes of field isolates of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). Most of the isolates originated from mucosal disease (MD) cases observed after vaccination with a live attenuated vaccine, termed here BVDV-X. The NS2-3 genes of these isolates and of the vaccine proved to be identical, including a 45-nucleotide (nt) viral insertion at nt position 4355. The insertion originated from the NS4B/5A junction region of the BVDV genome. Interestingly, in BVDV strain CP7 a 27-nt insertion originating from the NS2 is located exactly at the same position. Complete genome analysis of BVDV-X did not reveal further potential cp markers. Furthermore, expression studies indicated that the insertion promotes NS2-3 cleavage. In order to examine the possible role of the 45-nt insertion in viral cytopathogenicity in details, a full-length infectious cDNA clone of BVDV-X was generated, and bovine turbinate (BT) cells were transfected with RNA transcribed from the clone. The recovered virus, termed BVDV-XR, showed slight retardation in growth in comparison with the original BVDV-X, and induced cytopathogenic effect (CPE). Since the natural non-cytopathogenic (ncp) counterpart of the vaccine virus was not available, an insertion-negative mutant cDNA clone was generated from BVDV-XR by PCR-directed mutagenesis. The recovered virus, termed BVDV-XR-INS-, showed the same growth characteristics as its cp counterpart BVDV-XR, but caused no CPE. These findings provide a direct proof that the 45-nt insertion at position 4355 has a basic role in the cytopathogenic character of this BVDV strain.


pmid: 23313538
title: Serological and molecular evidence for natural infection of Bactrian camels with multiple subgenotypes of bovine viral diarrhea virus in Western China
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infects both domestic and wild animals, causing substantial economic losses. In order to investigate possible infection in Bactrian camels in Western China, a total of 56 blood samples were collected from clinically healthy Bactrian camels and tested for BVDV antigens and antibodies using antigen capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and virus neutralization test. The antigen-positive samples (n=17) were further tested for viral nucleic acids by species-specific real-time RT-PCR assays, which showed presence of BVDV-1, but not BVDV-2 nor atypical bovine pestivirus, in the camel samples. Twelve non-cytopathogenic viruses were isolated and genetically typed by sequencing of the 5'untranslated region (5'UTR) and N(pro) coding sequences. Phylogenetic analysis divided the isolates into six known subgenotypes: BVDV-1a, BVDV-1b, BVDV-1c, BVDV-1m, BVDV-1o, BVDV-1p and a putative subgenotype, BVDV-1q. This study provides, for the first time, serological and molecular evidence for natural infection of Bactrian camels in Western China with highly divergent BVDV-1 strains. Further investigations are needed to elucidate the possible roles of Bactrian camels in the epidemiology of BVD in Western China.


pmid: 16571808
title: Function of bovine CD46 as a cellular receptor for bovine viral diarrhea virus is determined by complement control protein 1
abstract: The pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was shown to bind to the bovine CD46 molecule, which subsequently promotes entry of the virus. To assess the receptor usage of BVDV type 1 (BVDV-1) and BVDV-2, 30 BVDV isolates including clinical samples were assayed for their sensitivity to anti-CD46 antibodies. With a single exception the infectivity of all tested strains of BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 was inhibited by anti-CD46 antibodies, which indicates the general usage of CD46 as a BVDV receptor. Molecular analysis of the interaction between CD46 and the BVD virion was performed by mapping the virus binding site on the CD46 molecule. Single complement control protein modules (CCPs) within the bovine CD46 were either deleted or replaced by analogous CCPs of porcine CD46, which does not bind BVDV. While the epitopes recognized by anti-CD46 monoclonal antibodies which block BVDV infection were attributed to CCP1 and CCP2, in functional assays only CCP1 turned out to be essential for BVDV binding and infection. Within CCP1 two short peptides on antiparallel beta strands were identified as crucial for the binding of BVDV. Exchanges of these two peptide sequences were sufficient for a loss of function in bovine CD46 as well as a gain of function in porcine CD46. Determination of the size constraints of CD46 revealed that a minimum length of four CCPs is essential for receptor function. An increase of the distance between the virus binding domain and the plasma membrane by insertion of one to six CCPs of bovine C4 binding protein exhibited only a minor influence on susceptibility to BVDV.


pmid: 26364098
title: Evaluation of the epidemiological and economic consequences of control scenarios for bovine viral diarrhea virus in dairy herds
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an important endemic infection. However, no information was available on whether it would be economically beneficial to implement a national control program in the Netherlands. Therefore, a stochastic simulation model was developed in which control scenarios were added to compare the epidemiological and economic consequences of BVDV control in Dutch dairy herds in the next 10 yr. In the epidemiological part of the model, herds could be classified as susceptible, infectious, recovered, or vaccinated. The outputs of the epidemiological module served as input for the economic module. Net costs that could be attributed to bovine viral diarrhea consisted of production losses, costs for testing, and culling persistently infected cattle in the present voluntary Dutch BVDV control program and costs for vaccination. Four different control scenarios were simulated, involving testing and culling of persistently infected (based on serum or ear-notch testing), and monitoring BVDV statuses and vaccination and were derived from BVDV control programs that are currently executed in Europe. The costs and benefits of BVDV control in the current situation and in each of the simulated control scenarios were evaluated assuming an annual discount rate of 2%. The model estimated a mean BVDV herd prevalence of 18.0% in 2014 and showed a slightly decreasing prevalence over time. The outputs seemed realistic for the present situation in the Netherlands when compared with actual survey data. The average annual net costs associated with bovine viral diarrhea were estimated at €27.8 million for the dairy industry. Two control scenarios were beneficial in controlling BVDV during the study period (between 2015 and 2025). In the scenario where tracing and removing of PI animals and monitoring of the subsequent status was obligatory, the benefit to cost (B/C) ratio was 1.5 (€1.5 benefit for each invested euro). In the scenario in which the BVDV status of all herds was determined, followed by voluntary measures before control measures became obligatory, the B/C ratio was 1.1. The B/C ratio of the scenarios included could be even higher when it was assumed that nondairy herds participated in the control program as well. The model provided the opportunity to compare the effect of voluntary and mandatory control scenarios on the BVDV prevalence and costs and benefits relative to the current situation in the Netherlands. The model was used to support policy makers in their decisions about a BVDV control program.


pmid: 14519331
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus genomic associations in mucosal disease, enteritis and generalized dermatitis outbreaks in Argentina
abstract: The objective of the present work is the description outbreaks caused by bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in commercial beef cattle ranches in Argentina. Genetic affiliation and their association with the clinical manifestation were carried out with five BVDV isolates from an outbreak of mucosal disease (MD) (Outbreak #1), acute enteritis (Outbreaks #2 and #3) and generalized dermatitis (Outbreaks #4 and #5). Upon genetic analysis CP BVDV isolate of Outbreak #1 clustered to closely to BVDV Oregon (Genotype 1). BVDV isolates from the outbreaks of generalized dermatitis (Outbreaks #4 and #5) were located close to BVDV Osloss within Genotype 1. The identification by immunohistochemistry of BVDV in exudative dermatitis indicates the epithelial cell tropism of the virus. Phylogenic characterization of BVDV from Outbreaks #2 and #3 locate them as BVDV-2. 5'UTR sequence of these viruses revealed a homology of 88 and 90% to BVDV-890 (Genotype 2) and a 77 and 75% to BVDV-SD1 (Genotype 1), respectively. The association of BVDV-2 with severe disease indicates the presence of highly virulent strains. Data from natural outbreaks where BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 were isolated revealed that pathology overlaps and not clearly allows the differentiation between genotypes based on gross or microscopic lesions. Thus, for a definitive diagnosis, further virology and molecular studies are necessary. Additionally, the results of this work focused on the origin and consequences of genetic variations of BVDV with regard to pathogenesis and suggest the association between genotype and a defined clinical syndrome.


pmid: 26441927
title: Assessment of the rabbit as a wildlife reservoir of bovine viral diarrhea virus: serological analysis and generation of trans-placentally infected offspring
abstract: Eradication of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is ongoing in many European countries and is based on removal of persistently infected (PI) cattle. In this context, low-level risks, including alternative reservoirs of infection, may become more important as the number of BVDV-free herds increases. Alternative reservoirs include livestock, such as sheep and goats, as well as wildlife, including deer and rabbits. Due to the extensive nature of the beef industry in Scotland, where an eradication program started in 2010, contact between cattle and alternative reservoir hosts is common. Seroprevalence to BVDV in rabbit populations can be high. In addition, rabbits can be infected with BVDV by natural routes, indicating that they could be a wildlife reservoir of infection. We analyzed the potential risk to livestock from rabbit populations in the UK by two approaches. First, ∼260 serum samples from free-ranging wild rabbits in Scotland and northern England were tested for BVDV-specific antibodies by ELISA. Only three samples exhibited low level BVDV-specific reactivity, suggesting that BVDV infection of rabbits was not frequent. Second, rabbits were challenged with BVDV at day 7 or 12 of pregnancy. This did not lead to any clinical signs in the infected animals or obvious increases in abortion or stillbirth in the infected dams. Samples from the dams, placental material and ∼130 offspring were tested by BVDV-specific RT-PCR and antibody ELISA. Positive PCR results in the placentas and in the tissues and body fluids of rabbits up to 10 days old showed that trans-placental infection of rabbits with BVDV had occurred. Many of the offspring had BVDV-specific antibodies. These data support the view that a wildlife reservoir of BVDV in rabbit poses a small but non-zero risk of re-infection for BVDV-free cattle herds. Rabbits are susceptible to infection with BVDV but only a small proportion of free-living rabbits in the UK appear to have been infected.


pmid: 21169514
title: Rumen temperature change monitored with remote rumen temperature boluses after challenges with bovine viral diarrhea virus and Mannheimia haemolytica
abstract: Remote rumen temperature monitoring is a potential method for early disease detection in beef cattle. This experiment was conducted to determine if remotely monitored rumen temperature boluses could detect a temperature change in steers exposed to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and challenged with a common bovine respiratory disease pathogen, Mannheimia haemolytica (MH). Twenty-four Angus crossbred steers (BW = 313 ± 31 kg) were allotted to 1 of 4 treatments: 1) no challenge (control); 2) challenge by a 72-h exposure to 2 steers persistently infected with BVDV; 3) bacterial challenge with MH; and 4) viral challenge by a 72-h exposure to 2 steers persistently infected with BVDV followed by bacterial challenge with MH (BVDV + MH). Remotely monitored rumen temperature boluses programmed to transmit temperature every minute were placed in the rumen before the time of exposure to steers persistently infected with BVDV. Rectal temperatures were taken before MH challenge (0) and at 2, 4, 6, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48, 72, and 96 h after MH challenge. Rumen temperatures were recorded 3 d before (-72 h; period of BVDV exposure) through 14 d after (336 h) MH challenge. Rumen temperatures were analyzed as a randomized complete block design with a 2 × 2 factorial arrangement of treatments and a first-order autoregressive covariance structure for repeated measures. A treatment × day interaction was observed for average daily rumen temperature (P < 0.01). A treatment difference (P < 0.01) was observed on d 0, when MH-challenged steers had greater rumen temperatures than steers not challenged with MH. There was no BVDV × day interaction (P > 0.01). Rumen temperatures averaged every 2 h resulted in a BVDV × hour interaction (P < 0.01) and an MH × hour interaction (P < 0.01). The BVDV × hour differences occurred at h -18 to -14, 40 to 46, 110, 122, and 144 to 146 (P < 0.01). The MH × hour difference occurred at h 4 to 24 (P < 0.01). Maximum rumen temperature was increased (P < 0.01) for BVDV (0.8 °C), MH (1.2 °C), and BVDV + MH (1.3 °C) compared with the control. On average, rumen temperatures measured by the boluses at the same time points as the rectal temperatures were 0.13 °C less than rectal temperatures, and the 2 body temperatures were highly correlated (r = 0.89). Rumen temperature boluses appear to have potential as a tool for detecting temperature changes associated with adverse health events such as exposure to bovine respiratory disease and BVDV.


pmid: 16928760
title: Role of the low-density lipoprotein receptor in entry of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Among several proposed cellular receptors for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor is of special interest because it is also considered a receptor for the related hepatitis C virus. It has been reported that an anti-LDL receptor monoclonal antibody blocked the infection of bovine cells by BVDV and that the resistance of bovine CRIB cells (cells resistant to infection with BVDV) (E. F. Flores and R. O. Donis, Virology 208:565-575, 1995) to BVDV infection was due to a lack of the LDL receptor (V. Agnello et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 96:12766-12771, 1999). In connection with our studies on BVDV entry, we reevaluated the putative role of the LDL receptor as a cellular receptor for BVDV. It was first clearly demonstrated that neither of two monoclonal antibodies against the LDL receptor inhibited BVDV infection of two bovine cell lines. Furthermore, the LDL receptor was detected on the surface of CRIB cells. The functionality of the LDL receptor on CRIB cells was demonstrated by the internalization of fluorescently labeled LDL. In conclusion, at present no experimental evidence supports an involvement of the LDL receptor in BVDV invasion.


pmid: 21220161
title: Effect of bovine viral diarrhoea virus biotypes on adherence of sperm to oocytes during in-vitro fertilization in cattle
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), a member of the Pestivirus genus, is one of the most important pathogens of dairy cattle; it can cause several clinical syndromes, ranging from subclinical to severe disease. The objectives of the current studies were to assess the effects of two biotypes of BVDV on sperm attachment to the zona pellucida (ZP) of oocytes and on fertilization rate in bovine in vitro fertilization (IVF). In two experiments, sperm at two concentrations (10⁵ and 10⁶/mL) and oocytes were incubated with 10⁶ TCID₅₀/mL cythopatic (CP) or noncythopatic (NCP) BVDV. In the first experiment, with the lower sperm concentration (10⁵/mL), male and female gametes were infected with CP or NCP BVDV, whereas in the second experiment, the sperm concentration was 10⁶/mL, and sperm and oocytes were also infected with CP or NCP BVDV. The number of sperm attached to the ZP and the fertilization rate were evaluated with fluorescence microscopy on the ZP of fertile and infertile oocytes. In the first experiment, compared to the control group (n = 97), oocytes infected with CP BVDV and incubated at the lower (10⁵/mL) sperm concentration positively affected sperm attachment (n = 123) to the ZP of fertile oocytes (P < 0.05). In comparison with the control group (n = 115), sperm infected with CP BVDV negatively affected sperm binding (n = 93) to the ZP of infertile oocytes (P < 0.05). In the second experiment (10⁶ sperm/mL), for both fertile and infertile oocyte groups, sperm attachment in the control group was very high and deemed uncountable. However, in treated groups, the number of sperm attached to the ZP was countable. Only sperm infected with CP BVDV negatively affected sperm binding capacity (n = 81) to the ZP of fertile oocytes (P < 0.05). Although CP and NCP BVDV significantly reduced the fertilization rate of oocytes incubated with a higher sperm concentration, with the lower sperm concentration, only NCP BVDV significantly diminished fertilization rate with contaminated sperm and oocytes (P < 0.05). In conclusion, this study supported the detrimental impacts of sperm or ooctyes infected with CP or NCP BVDV on sperm attachment to the ZP of bovine oocytes and on fertilization rate during bovine IVF.


pmid: 19443139
title: Infectivity of pestivirus following persistence of acute infection
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is an endemic pathogen worldwide and eradication strategies focus on the identification and removal of persistently infected (PI) animals arising after in utero infection. Despite this, acute infections with BVDV can persist for months or years after the removal of the PI source despite repeated screening for PIs and tight biosecurity measures. Recent evidence for a prolonged duration of viraemia in the testicles of bulls following acute BVDV infection suggests the possibility of a form of chronic persistence that may more closely resemble the persistence strategies of hepatitis C virus (HCV). To investigate the potential for virus transmission from infected and recovered cattle to virus naïve hosts we established an acute infection of 5 BVDV-naïve calves and monitored animals over 129 days. Infectious BVDV was detected in white blood cells between days 3 and 7 post-challenge. The animals seroconverted by day 21 post-infection and subsequently were apparently immune and free from infectious virus and viral antigen. Animals were further monitored and purified white blood cells were stimulated in vitro with phytohaemagglutinin A (PHA) during which time BVDV RNA was detected intermittently. Ninety-eight days following challenge, blood was transferred from these apparently virus-free and actively immune animals to a further group of 5 BVDV-naïve calves and transmission of infection was achieved. This indicates that BVDV-infected, recovered and immune animals have the potential to remain infectious for BVDV-naïve cohorts for longer than previously demonstrated.


pmid: 15036997
title: Effect of bovine viral diarrhea virus infection on fertility of dairy heifers
abstract: A prospective field study in heifers from birth to first breeding was undertaken on two commercial dairies to assess the effect of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) congenital and post-natal infection (PNI) on fertility. A high BVDV Type 2 antibody titer (1:4096) at 10 months of age was associated with 32 more days to conceive, compared with a low titer (1:128). Conversely, infection with BVDV by 5-6 months of age and high BVDV Type 2 titers 1 month before conception or breeding was associated with improved fertility. Heifers with evidence of congenital BVDV infection had lower fertility than non-infected heifers (15-42 days longer time-to-first AI), which depended on BVDV Type 2 titers at 10 months of age. Neospora caninum infection was associated with additional services per conception (SPC) and Leptospira interrogans infection was associated with a delay in the time-to-first breeding. It appears that under field conditions, the effect of subclinical BVDV infection on subsequent heifer fertility may be due to a complex of interrelationships among multiple BVDV infections that depend on the type and timing of infection relative to reproductive development and events.


pmid: 26074250
title: Survey on vertical infection of bovine viral diarrhea virus from fetal bovine sera in the field
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolation and antibody survey were performed using 2,758 fetal bovine sera (FBS) collected from slaughterhouses in New Zealand, Australia and the Dominican Republic, and then sent to Japan to manufacture commercial serum for cell culture use. FBS in the Dominican Republic were pooled for each several individuals, and those collected in other countries were separated according to each individual and subjected to the tests. BVDV was isolated from 25 (0.91%) FBS, and the BVDV antibody was detected in 44 (1.60%) FBS. The survey on 139 sets of paired sera of a dam and her fetus revealed that neither the BVDV antibody nor BVDV was detected in all FBS from BVDV antibody-positive dams.


pmid: 10369569
title: Comparison of type I and type II bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in swine
abstract: Some isolates of type II bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) are capable of causing severe clinical disease in cattle. Bovine viral diarrhea virus infection has been reported in pigs, but the ability of these more virulent isolates of type II BVDV to induce severe clinical disease in pigs is unknown. It was our objective to compare clinical, virologic, and pathologic findings between type I and type II BVDV infection in pigs. Noninfected control and BVDV-infected 2-month-old pigs were used. A noncytopathic type I and a noncytopathic type II BVDV isolate were chosen for evaluation in feeder age swine based upon preliminary in vitro and in vivo experiments. A dose titration study was performed using 4 groups of 4 pigs for each viral isolate. The groups were inoculated intranasally with either sham (control), 10(3), 10(5), or 10(7) TCID50 of virus. The pigs were examined daily and clinical findings were recorded. Antemortem and postmortem samples were collected for virus isolation. Neither the type I nor type II BVDV isolates resulted in clinical signs of disease in pigs. Bovine viral diarrhea virus was isolated from antemortem and postmortem samples from groups of pigs receiving the 10(5) and the 10(7) TCID50 dose of the type I BVDV isolate. In contrast, BVDV was only isolated from postmortem samples in the group of pigs receiving the 10(7) TCID50 dose of the type II BVDV isolate. Type I BVDV was able to establish infection in pigs at lower doses by intranasal instillation than type II BVDV. Infection of pigs with a type II isolate of BVDV known to cause severe disease in calves did not result in clinically apparent disease in pigs.


pmid: 15753473
title: Viral antigen distribution in the respiratory tract of cattle persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus subtype 2a
abstract: Tissues were obtained at necropsy from the nasal vestibule, turbinates, nasopharynx, trachea, tracheobronchial bifurcation, and lung from each of 10 clinically healthy calves persistently infected (PI) with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) serotype 2a. Tissues from the nasal vestibule were obtained by biopsy from five additional PI calves. Formalin-fixed tissues were processed for immunohistochemistry to localize the distribution of BVDV throughout the respiratory tract. Antigen distribution and intensity were subjectively evaluated. Throughout the respiratory tract, mononuclear leukocytes, vascular smooth muscle, and endoneural and perineural cells had BVDV immunoreactivity (BVDV-IR). Multifocally, squamous and ciliated columnar epithelium throughout the respiratory tract contained weak to moderate BVDV antigen. Viral antigen was not seen in goblet cells. BVDV-IR in mixed tubuloalveolar glands of the nasal cavity was weak to strong in serous secretory cells and ductular epithelium. Chondrocytes of the concha often contained BVDV antigen diffusely. Nasal mucus-secreting and tracheobronchial glands multifocally contained weak viral signal. In all cases, alveolar macrophages had moderate to strong BVDV-IR, whereas BVDV-IR in alveolar epithelial cells was weak to moderate. BVDV was present in interalveolar leukocytes and mesenchymal cells. Results indicate that serous secretions of the nasal cavity, productive viral infection of epithelium, and infected leukocytes in respiratory secretions are likely major sources of infectious BVDV from PI calves. The presence of BVDV antigen in respiratory epithelium is, at least, indirect support for the notion that this virus predisposes PI cattle to secondary microbial infections.


pmid: 10369569
title: Comparison of type I and type II bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in swine
abstract: Some isolates of type II bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) are capable of causing severe clinical disease in cattle. Bovine viral diarrhea virus infection has been reported in pigs, but the ability of these more virulent isolates of type II BVDV to induce severe clinical disease in pigs is unknown. It was our objective to compare clinical, virologic, and pathologic findings between type I and type II BVDV infection in pigs. Noninfected control and BVDV-infected 2-month-old pigs were used. A noncytopathic type I and a noncytopathic type II BVDV isolate were chosen for evaluation in feeder age swine based upon preliminary in vitro and in vivo experiments. A dose titration study was performed using 4 groups of 4 pigs for each viral isolate. The groups were inoculated intranasally with either sham (control), 10(3), 10(5), or 10(7) TCID50 of virus. The pigs were examined daily and clinical findings were recorded. Antemortem and postmortem samples were collected for virus isolation. Neither the type I nor type II BVDV isolates resulted in clinical signs of disease in pigs. Bovine viral diarrhea virus was isolated from antemortem and postmortem samples from groups of pigs receiving the 10(5) and the 10(7) TCID50 dose of the type I BVDV isolate. In contrast, BVDV was only isolated from postmortem samples in the group of pigs receiving the 10(7) TCID50 dose of the type II BVDV isolate. Type I BVDV was able to establish infection in pigs at lower doses by intranasal instillation than type II BVDV. Infection of pigs with a type II isolate of BVDV known to cause severe disease in calves did not result in clinically apparent disease in pigs.


pmid: 15753473
title: Viral antigen distribution in the respiratory tract of cattle persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus subtype 2a
abstract: Tissues were obtained at necropsy from the nasal vestibule, turbinates, nasopharynx, trachea, tracheobronchial bifurcation, and lung from each of 10 clinically healthy calves persistently infected (PI) with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) serotype 2a. Tissues from the nasal vestibule were obtained by biopsy from five additional PI calves. Formalin-fixed tissues were processed for immunohistochemistry to localize the distribution of BVDV throughout the respiratory tract. Antigen distribution and intensity were subjectively evaluated. Throughout the respiratory tract, mononuclear leukocytes, vascular smooth muscle, and endoneural and perineural cells had BVDV immunoreactivity (BVDV-IR). Multifocally, squamous and ciliated columnar epithelium throughout the respiratory tract contained weak to moderate BVDV antigen. Viral antigen was not seen in goblet cells. BVDV-IR in mixed tubuloalveolar glands of the nasal cavity was weak to strong in serous secretory cells and ductular epithelium. Chondrocytes of the concha often contained BVDV antigen diffusely. Nasal mucus-secreting and tracheobronchial glands multifocally contained weak viral signal. In all cases, alveolar macrophages had moderate to strong BVDV-IR, whereas BVDV-IR in alveolar epithelial cells was weak to moderate. BVDV was present in interalveolar leukocytes and mesenchymal cells. Results indicate that serous secretions of the nasal cavity, productive viral infection of epithelium, and infected leukocytes in respiratory secretions are likely major sources of infectious BVDV from PI calves. The presence of BVDV antigen in respiratory epithelium is, at least, indirect support for the notion that this virus predisposes PI cattle to secondary microbial infections.


pmid: 9617771
title: Mapping of a type 1-specific and a type-common epitope on the E2 (gp53) protein of bovine viral diarrhea virus with neutralization escape mutants
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea viruses (BVDV) have recently been segregated into two genotypes, BVDV 1 and BVDV 2. However, the antigenic differences and similarities of BVDV 1 and BVDV 2 remain poorly defined. In this study, the E2 epitopes of two neutralizing monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) produced against an isolate of BVDV 1 were mapped. The mAb 157, previously determined to be broadly cross-reactive to BVDV, was discovered to be BVDV 1-specific, whereas mAb 348 bound to and neutralized BVDV 2. Both mAbs bound to epitopes within the first 192 amino acids of the E2 protein as determined by reactions with a C-terminally truncated E2. To identify critical amino acids affecting these epitopes, mAb escape mutants were selected for sequencing from BVDV 1 and BVDV 2 strains with different (wild-type) mAb binding phenotypes. In addition, the E2 gene of several BVDV were sequenced and the sequences were compared with amino acid changes in mutant viruses. Single nucleotide changes in escape mutants selected with mAb 157 resulted in deduced amino acid changes at E2 positions 9, 32 or 72. Amino acid changes at position 72 also affected the epitope of mAb 348. Alignment of E2 nucleotide sequences revealed that BVDV 2 are missing six nucleotides encoding the equivalent of amino acids 31 and 32 of BVDV 1 and thus, this difference can account for the BVDV 1-specificity of mAb 157. Single nucleotide mutations in mAb 348 escape mutants of BVDV 1 and BVDV 2 resulted in changes in 3 amino acids in the previously described immunodominant 71-74 region (Virology 190, 763-772). A fourth amino acid change observed in a mutant of BVDV 2 extended this region to position 77. Thus, the amino acid changes affecting the conserved epitope of mAb 348 occurred in a short spatial array over only seven amino acids, unlike the described composite epitopes previously mapped to this region.


pmid: 9249168
title: Distribution of cytopathic and noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus antigens in tissues of calves following acute experimental infection
abstract: The distribution of cytopathic and noncytopathic biotypes of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in the tissues of colostrum-fed and colostrum-deprived calves was investigated. Colostrum-fed (group A) and colostrum-deprived (group B) calves were experimentally infected with the BVDV isolate 80/1, which contains both BVDV biotypes. Colostrum-deprived calves were also experimentally infected with a noncytopathic BVDV (group C) or with a cytopathic BVDV (group D) cloned from the 80/1 isolate. All calves were sequentially euthanized, and a wide range of tissue samples were processed for immunofluorescent and virus isolation studies. In group A, consistent immunofluorescent staining for BVDV was detected in vascular smooth muscle of numerous blood vessels in the tissues examined, mainly at 11 and 13 days postinoculation. A predominance of samples containing cytopathic BVDV was observed in the calves of this group, following virus isolation studies. Both cytopathic and noncytopathic BVDV were detected/recovered from a larger range of specimens in the calves in group B than from the calves in group A. In the calves in all the experimental groups, large amounts of BVDV antigen were detected mainly in tissue samples from the lymphoid and gastrointestinal systems, whereas only minimal amounts of BVDV were detected in the respiratory tract. Abundant noncytopathic BVDV antigen was also detected in pituitary gland and in Langerhans islets in pancreases of colostrum-deprived calves infected with the cloned noncytopathic BVDV. Noncytopathic BVDV was isolated from a wider range of tissues from calves in group C than in the colostrum-deprived calves infected with both BVDV biotypes. A cytopathic BVDV was isolated/detected in retropharyngeal, mesenteric, and abomasal lymph nodes and in thymus of 2 calves in group C. Cytopathic BVDV was detected/isolated mainly from mesenteric lymph nodes and Peyer's patches of the calves in group D.


pmid: 16051874
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus entry is dependent on clathrin-mediated endocytosis
abstract: Cellular mechanisms of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) entry in MDBK cells were investigated. Chloroquine, bafilomycin A1, or ammonium chloride inhibited BVDV infection, indicating that an acidic endosomal pH is required for BVDV entry. The tyrosine kinase inhibitor genistein partially inhibited BVDV infection at a postentry step, whereas BVDV entry was strongly inhibited by chlorpromazine or by the overexpression of a dominant-negative form of EPS15, a protein essential for the formation of clathrin-coated vesicles at the plasma membrane. Together, these data indicate that BVDV infection requires an active clathrin-dependent endocytic pathway.


pmid: 23512919
title: Spatial point pattern analyses of Bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in domestic livestock herds and concomitant seroprevalence in wild white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in New York State, USA
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an economically important disease of domestic cattle that is capable of infecting cervids. A first step in the formulation of a regional BVDV management plan is a local assessment of the likelihood of pathogen transmission from wildlife to domestic livestock. To achieve this, blood samples were collected from hunter-harvested white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) throughout New York State in the fall of 2009 and 2010. The SVANOVIR BVDV p80-AB enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA; Svanova Biotech AV, Uppsala, Sweden) was used to screen sera for anti-BVDV antibodies. Because this ELISA is not validated for use in white-tailed deer, sera that tested positive were tested again using serum neutralization to verify the presence of antibodies. Spatial data describing the geographic location of BVDV antigen-positive cattle and camelid herds and BVDV-seropositive white-tailed deer were analyzed via the dual kernel density estimation method. In white-tailed deer, 7.48% (80/1,069) were BVDV-seropositive, whereas 3.43% (144/4,195) of tested herds were positive for BVDV antigen. An exploratory cluster analysis revealed 1 significant cluster of BVDV antigen-positive herds and 2 significant clusters of BVDV-seropositive deer. There was no spatial overlap between the clusters. The spatial point pattern and exploratory cluster analyses suggest that BVDV is maintained independently in domestic livestock herds in the western part of the state and in the white-tailed deer population in the northwestern part of the state.


pmid: 1709950
title: Rapid detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus by polymerase chain reaction
abstract: The polymerase chain reaction was used to detect genomic sequences of the positive-stranded RNA of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a member of the family Togaviridae. Using a set of 20-bp primers located within the conserved 3' region of the BVDV genome, we were able to consistently amplify a 205-bp target sequence from BVDV cDNA. BVDV RNAs from cell culture-propagated BVDV reference strains, diverse unrelated cytopathic and noncytopathic field isolates, and clinical serum samples were transcribed to cDNA by using avian myeloblastosis virus reverse transcriptase and further specifically amplified by using the polymerase chain reaction assay. The amplification assay was sensitive enough to detect one molecule of cloned BVDV cDNA. Reconstitution experiments conducted by adding decreasing amounts of BVDV (NADL strain) to BVDV-free serum indicated that the threshold of sensitivity of the assay was less than or equal to 1 50% tissue culture infective dose. These results show that the polymerase chain reaction may be used for the rapid detection of diverse strains of BVDV in cell cultures, biological products, and clinical specimens from cattle.


pmid: 22980084
title: Reproductive and economic impact following controlled introduction of cattle persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus into a naive group of heifers
abstract: The reproductive impact following controlled introduction of animals persistently infected (PI) with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was evaluated in BVDV-naive heifers. Heifers were randomly allocated into two groups: an unexposed control herd (n = 34) and a herd exposed to five persistently infected (PI) animals for 7 mo, beginning 50 days before the breeding season (n = 34). Initiation of the BVDV-challenge was timed to mimic either direct contact with PI calves born in the previous calving season or accidental introduction of PI herd additions prior to the breeding season. The PI animals represented BVDV Types 1a (n = 3), 1b (n = 1) and 2 (n = 1). Two BVDV-free, seropositive bulls were used in each group for 78 days breeding seasons. In both groups, 33 of 34 heifers became pregnant, with similar distribution of fetal ages. Two heifers in each group aborted (etiology undetermined). In addition, one calf was born dead and one calf died 3 days post-partum in the BVDV-exposed group. One calf in the unexposed group died 4 mo post-partum. No calves, including the stillborn calf and the two calves that died prior to weaning, were persistently infected with BVDV. In summary, introduction of PI cattle to a group of BVDV-naive heifers 50 days prior to the breeding season did not negatively impact reproductive performance. To the contrary, the active immunity that developed following field exposure to BVDV provided effective reproductive and fetal protection during the breeding season and subsequent gestations, despite continuous exposure to PI animals until approximately midgestation. Although BVDV can have potentially devastating reproductive effects, timing of infection is a critical determinant in the outcome of a BVDV infection. A controlled breeding season with introduction of herd additions at less critical reproductive time points can mitigate the negative reproductive health consequences of BVDV.


pmid: 11267691
title: Persistent bovine viral diarrhoea virus infection in US beef herds
abstract: In the summer of 1996, we screened 18,931 calves in 128 beef herds located in five US states for persistent bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection. Of these, 76 herds were randomly selected from the client database of collaborating veterinary practices, and 52 herds were suspected by the collaborating veterinarians to have BVDV infection based on history or clinical signs. Serum was obtained from each calf in the cooperating herds prior to 4 months of age and tested for the presence of BVDV by microtiter virus isolation. Information about each of the herds (including management practices, vaccination history, and breeding- and calving-season production measures) were collected by the collaborating veterinarians using standardized questionnaires. A total of 56 BVDV-positive calves in 13 herds were identified on initial screening. Ten (19%) of the BVDV-suspect herds and three (4%) of the randomly selected herds had > or = 1 BVDV-positive calf at initial screening. Multiple BVDV-positive calves were identified in 10 of those 13 herds. Follow-up information was obtained for 54 of the 56 positive calves. Ten out of 54 (18%) died prior to weaning, and 1 (2%) was sold because of unusually poor growth. Thirty-three out of 54 (61%) of the initially positive calves remained BVDV positive at 6 months of age - confirming persistent-infection (PI) status. Dams of 45 of the 56 positive calves were tested, with 3 (7%) identified as positive - indicating most PI calves were products of acute dam infection during gestation. The proportion of cows that were pregnant at the fall 1995 pregnancy examination was 5% lower in herds with PI calves born during the 1996 calving season than in randomly selected herds without PI calves. Most of the calves we identified with persistent BVDV infections survived to weaning, and could provide a constant source of virus to the herd throughout the breeding season and early gestation.


pmid: 12667792
title: Trans-complementation of autonomously replicating Bovine viral diarrhea virus replicons with deletions in the E2 coding region
abstract: Autonomously replicating Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) genomes (replicons) were constructed from the full-length BVDV cDNA clone pA/BVDV/Ins- (G. Meyers et al., J. Virol. 70, 8606-8613, 1996). The sequences coding for envelope protein E2, for E2 without the C-terminal transmembrane region, or for E2 and nonstructural protein p7 were deleted, and the resulting mutants were tested for their ability to replicate after transfection. All deletion mutants were able to replicate and to express the inserted green fluorescent protein but did not produce infectious progeny virus in bovine kidney PT cells. The replicons were also tested for their ability to be trans-complemented in the bovine cell line PT_805, which constitutively expresses BVDV structural proteins. E2-negative BVDV mutants were complemented and >10(6) infectious units were obtained at 24 h after transfection. Complementing PT_805 cells could only inefficiently be infected using trans-complemented virions, however, and low levels of virus production were observed when complemented BVDV was passaged using PT_805 cells. Similarly, infection of PT_805 cells with BVDV was highly inefficient, but transfection of full-length BVDV NCP7 RNA into PT_805 resulted in 10,000-fold higher virus titers when compared to those obtained 24 h after transfection of parental PT cells. We concluded that self-replicating E2-deleted BVDV RNAs can be efficiently trans-complemented by constitutively expressed E2, and that expression of BVDV structural proteins markedly influences susceptibility of cells to BVDV infection as well as BVDV titers after transfection of full-length BVDV RNA.


pmid: 9451457
title: Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte responses in cattle infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: A system for a reproducible in vitro restimulation of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)-specific cytotoxic T-cells (CTL) was developed. Lymphocyte cultures of BVDV-immunised cattle were stimulated with infectious BVDV isolate PT810 and recombinant bovine interleukin-2 for 12 to 25 days. A specific lysis of Concanavalin A-stimulated BVDV-infected autologous target cells was observed, whereas allogeneic BVDV-infected target cells were only marginally lysed as detected by flow cytometry. BVDV-specific lymphocyte transformation was further characterised by the expression of bovine lymphocyte activation antigens and bovine MHC class-II molecules. Secondary stimulation of CTL was influenced by in vitro production of BVDV-specific neutralising antibodies, which were secreted exclusively in BVDV-inoculated lymphocyte cultures of immunised cattle. These results demonstrate the presence of CTL in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of immunised cattle which can kill autologous BVDV-infected antigen-presenting cells after in vitro restimulation.


pmid: 24388633
title: Genotypic characterization of Chilean llama (Lama glama) and alpaca (Vicugna pacos) pestivirus isolates
abstract: Llamas and alpacas are domesticated South American camelids (SACs) important to ancestral population in the Altiplano region, and to different communities worldwide where they have been introduced. These ungulates have shown to be susceptible to several livestock viral pathogens such as members of the Pestivirus genus, in particular Bovine Viral Diarrhea (BVDV), but there is little data available on Pestivirus infections in SACs. In this study we aimed to detect and identify Pestivirus genotypes and subgroups infecting SACs in both wild and confined environments. Samples were collected from 136 llamas and 30 alpacas from different areas in the Chilean Altiplano (wild animals), and from 22 llamas and 26 alpacas diagnosed as Pestivirus positive from the Metropolitana region in Chile (confined animals). Seroneutralization tests showed titers lower than 2 in all 166 samples from Chilean Altiplano. These samples were also negative to BVDV isolation, indicating that these animals have not been exposed to Pestivirus. After reactivation of positive samples from the Metropolitana region, the 5' non-codifying region (5'NCR) and E2 glycoprotein were amplified by RT-PCR from the Pestivirus genome. Viral sequences were pairwise compared and phylogenetic trees were constructed. The 5'NCR analysis showed that all 12 sequenced isolates belonged to BVDV-1. Of particular interest, isolates from eight llama and two alpaca were BVDV-1j and two alpacas were BVDV-1b. In agreement with these results, E2 phylogenetic analysis rendered a similar grouping indicating that all 16 isolates belong to BVDV-1. However, the lower availability of E2 sequences determines the creation of a smaller number of sub-groups than the 5'NCR sequences. Based on the E2 sequences, the 5'NCR BVDV 1j group consisting of all the llamas and 3 alpacas are completely included in the E2 BVDV 1e group. Due to the universal availability of the 5'NCR segment, we propose the classification of these Chilean llamas and alpacas Pestivirus isolates as BVDV 1j and BVDV 1b respectively. Thus, this is the first time BVDV-1j is obtained in SACs. In addition, these results indicate Pestivirus infection in llamas and alpacas is associated with bovine population as genotypes and sub-groups are the same as those affecting Chilean livestock.


pmid: 9355246
title: Characterization of a putative receptor protein for bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: In a previous communication, we reported a 50-kDa cell surface protein from Madin-Darby bovine kidney (MDBK) cells as a putative receptor for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). The present study delineates further characterization of the receptor protein. Protease treatment of cultured MDBK cells adversely affected the receptor, thus abolishing the binding of anti-D89 (BVDV anti-idiotypes) to the cells. However, pretreatment of the cells with either phospholipases or glycosidases did not significantly change the anti-D89 binding to the cells. Additionally, pretreatment of cell monolayers with proteases decreased BVDV attachment and replication in the cells. These results suggested that the receptor for BVDV is a protein in nature, and glycosylation and phosphorylation may not play a direct role in BVDV attachment to cells. The BVDV receptor gradually regenerated on the cell surface after the protease-treated cells were cultured in normal growth medium. Regeneration of the BVDV receptor to a normal level took about 4 h as indicated by flow cytometric analysis and this process was inhibited in the presence of cycloheximide, a protein synthesis inhibitor. The 50-kDa receptor protein purified by electro-elution inhibited BVDV infection in a plaque reduction assay. It also inhibited anti-D89 binding to cells as analyzed by flow cytometry. These data demonstrated the nature of the 50-kDa protein as a specific receptor for BVDV.


pmid: 17349807
title: Prevalence of Neospora caninum and bovine viral diarrhoea virus in dairy cows in Southern Vietnam
abstract: The main purpose of this study was to investigate the prevalence of Neospora caninum and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in some dairy herds in Southern Vietnam, and to ascertain whether there were differences in seroprevalences between herds with imported and locally bred cows. Serum samples collected on five state farms and 97 smallholder herds were analysed for the presence of antibodies to N. caninum and BVDV. All BVDV antibody-negative sera were further tested by antigen-ELISA in order to identify persistently infected individuals. The N. caninum prevalence varied between 16% and 53% in the state herds, and was higher in the four herds that had imported cows than in the herd that only had locally bred cows. Nineteen percent of the samples collected on smallholder farms, which all had only locally bred cows, had antibodies to N. caninum. The BVDV seroprevalence varied between 58% and 93% on the state farms. In smallholder herds, the prevalence of BVDV among the sampled cows was 18% and even lower on the state farms. Despite the high seroprevalence for BVDV in the state herds, no persistently BVDV infected cows were found. Given the high prevalence for Neospora and BVDV among herds with imported cows, it seems advisable to test for both infections before cattle are imported into the country.


pmid: 9356345
title: Subdivision of the pestivirus genus based on envelope glycoprotein E2
abstract: Conventionally, the genus Pestivirus of the family Flaviviridae has been divided into bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), classical swine fever virus (CSFV), and border disease virus (BDV). To date, BDV and BVDV have been isolated from different species, whereas CSFV seems to be restricted to swine. Pestiviruses are structurally and antigenically closely related. Envelope glycoprotein E2 is the most immunogenic and most variable protein of pestiviruses. We cloned E2 genes of many different pestivirus strains, including those from a deer and a giraffe. The E2 genes were transiently expressed, characterized with monoclonal antibodies, sequenced, and compared. Based on these data, we can delineate six major groups within the Pestivirus genus. Four groups correspond to defined genotypes, whereas the two other groups could be new genotypes within the Pestivirus genus. One group comprises CSFV strains isolated from swine. A second group consists of BDV strains Moredun, L83, and X818, which have been isolated from sheep, and strain F from swine. A third group contains strain BD78 from sheep, strain 5250 from swine, and strain 178003 from cattle. On the basis of E2, these viruses are very similar to BVDV strains associated with acute severe outbreaks of bovine viral diarrhea, so-called type 2 BVDV. The fourth group consists of BVDV strains originating predominantly from cattle. This BVDV group can be divided into two subtypes or subgroups BVDV Ia and Ib: BVDV Ia contains viruses from the United States, such as like NADL and Oregon, and some others, such as 150022 and 1138 from Europe. Subgroup BVDV Ib contains strain Osloss and several Dutch isolates. The fifth and sixth "groups" could be proposed as two new genotypes and contain strains Deer and Giraffe, respectively.


pmid: 34911882
title: Endemic infections of bovine viral diarrhea virus genotypes 1b and 2a isolated from cattle in Japan between 2014 and 2020
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a causative agent of bovine viral diarrhea. In Japan, a previous study reported that subgenotype 1b viruses were predominant until 2014. Because there is little information regarding the recent epidemiological status of BVDV circulating in Japan, we performed genetic characterization of 909 BVDV isolates obtained between 2014 and 2020. We found that 657 and 252 isolates were classified as BVDV-1 and BVDV-2, respectively, and that they were further subdivided into 1a (35 isolates, 3.9%), 1b (588, 64.7%), 1c (34, 3.7%), and 2a (252, 27.7%). Phylogenetic analysis using entire E2 coding sequence revealed that a major domestic cluster in Japan among BVDV-1b and 2a viruses were unchanged from a previous study conducted from 2006 to 2014. These results provide updated information concerning the epidemic strain of BVDV in Japan, which would be helpful for appropriate vaccine selection.


pmid: 18654834
title: Prevalence and risk factors associated with bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in dairy herds in Jordan
abstract: A cross-sectional study was carried out to determine the seroprevalence and to identify risk factors associated with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in 62 non-vaccinated dairy herds (671 cows) in Jordan between January and June 2007. Information regarding herd management was recorded through a personal interview with farmers. Antibodies against BVDV were detected using an indirect ELISA test. Chi-square analysis and multivariable logistic regression model were used to identify risk factors for BVDV seropositivity. The true prevalence of antibodies against BVDV in individual cows and cattle herds was 31.6% and 80.7%, respectively. The seroprevalence of BVDV in medium and large size herds was significantly higher than that in smaller herds. There was no significant difference in BVD seroprevalence between different age groups. Random-effects logistic regression model revealed two major factors associated with seropositivity to BVDV; exchange of visits between adjacent farm workers and not isolating newly purchased animals before addition to the herd. The seroprevalence of BVDV in cows located in the northern Jordanian governorates was significantly higher than that in other studied governorates. Results of this study indicated that BVDV is highly prevalent in Jordan and BVDV infection could be controlled by livestock-trade control, and applying strict biosecurity measures in the dairy farms.


pmid: 21356540
title: Comparison of viral replication and IFN response in alpaca and bovine cells following bovine viral diarrhea virus infection
abstract: Alpacas develop diminished disease following bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection compared to cattle. We hypothesized that alpaca and bovine cells have differential permissiveness and responses to BVDV infection. To characterize alpaca testicular (AT) and bovine turbinate (BT) cells BVDV infection permissiveness, viral replication and interferon (IFN) synthesis was evaluated. BVDV replicated 3-4 logs lower in AT cells with diminished antigen deposition compared to BT cells. BVDV infection inhibited IFN response in both AT and BT cells. Compared to BT cells, BVDV-infected AT cells had a 2-5 fold increase in IFN synthesis following dsRNA stimulation. The greater IFN response of AT cells compared to BT cells following poly I:C stimulation with or without ncp BVDV infection, may be the basis for the decreased BVDV permissiveness of AT cells and may contribute to the clinical differences following BVDV infection of alpacas and cattle.


pmid: 20046631
title: Fetal protection against bovine viral diarrhea virus types 1 and 2 after the use of a modified-live virus vaccine
abstract: The objective of this study was to demonstrate the efficacy of a modified-live virus (MLV) vaccine in protecting fetuses from infection with type 1 or type 2 Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) when pregnant heifers were challenged at approximately 170 d of gestation with noncytopathic field isolates. The 83 pregnant heifers had been bred naturally 4 wk after vaccination. Fetuses were collected 60 d after BVDV type 2 challenge, and newborn calves were collected before colostrum intake after BVDV type 1 challenge. Protection was determined by measuring the serum neutralizing (SN) antibody response in the fetus or calf and by virus isolation from thymus, lung, spleen, and kidney tissue samples. There was a measurable SN antibody response to BVDV in all the fetuses and calves of the control heifers, which had received a placebo vaccine. However, only 4 of 22 calves and 7 of the 28 fetuses of the MLV-vaccinated heifers demonstrated SN antibody after BVDV challenge. Type 1 BVDV was isolated from tissue samples of 5 of the 12 calves of control heifers and none of 22 calves of the MLV-vaccinated heifers challenged with type 1 BVDV. Type 2 BVDV was isolated from tissue samples of 17 of the 18 fetuses of the control heifers and 2 of the 28 fetuses of the MLV-vaccinated heifers challenged with type 2 BVDV. The results of this study demonstrate that the MLV vaccine reduces the fetal infection rate by at least 82% for BVDV type 1 and by 75% for BVDV type 2 when heifers are exposed to highly fetotrophic BVDV at 170 d of gestation.


pmid: 9178501
title: Induction of apoptosis and cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase by cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus infection
abstract: The Pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) causes the fatal diarrheal syndrome, mucosal disease, because of mutations in the viral genome which convert the common noncytopathic (ncp) BVDV into a cytopathic (cp) biotype. We examined the nature of the cytopathic effect of cp-BVDV in cultured bovine cells in order to accurately describe the process and to gain insight into the mechanism of cp-BVDV-induced cell death. The findings demonstrate that cells infected with cp-BVDV in vitro die by apoptosis, but cells infected with ncp-BVDV do not. Analysis of nuclear morphology by staining with fluorescent DNA dye and cpi-fluorescence microscopy showed chromatin condensation and margination in cells infected with cp-BVDV. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) confirmed the condensation of chromatin, as well as cell shrinkage and generation of apoptotic bodies. The chromosomal DNA of cells infected with cp-BVDV undergoes fragmentation, generating the typical oligonucleosomal fragments commonly noted during apoptosis. The fragmented DNA was released from the nucleus to the cytoplasm, and eventually to the culture supernatant. Infection with cp-BVDV activates cellular proteases of the ICE family leading to cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), a nuclear enzyme implicated in genome maintenance. This demonstration that cp-BVDV kills cells by triggering apoptosis suggests the possibility that cp-BVDV is associated with a fatal disease by the acquisition of a new apoptosis-inducing activity. We consider BVDV to be an excellent model system for studies of the biological and medical relevance of apoptosis in viral infections.


pmid: 27822233
title: Molecular characterization and phylogenetic analysis of bovine viral diarrhea virus in dairy herds of Fars province, Iran
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is one of the most important viral pathogens of cattle worldwide. The aim of present study was to determine the molecular characterization and phylogenetic analysis of BVDV infection in dairy herds of Fars province, Iran. For initial screening, a total of 400 blood samples were collected from 12 industrial dairy herds with previous history of diarrhea, abortion or birth of weak calves and analyzed using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) on buffy coat. In the next step, blood samples and also ear notch biopsies were collected from 100 cattle of infected farms three weeks later which were subsequently tested by antigen capture ELISA (ACE), RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry (IHC). The results of nested RT-PCR were successful in 16 out of 400 buffy coat samples (4%) in the initial screening. Also, 8 out of 100 samples (8%) were positive by all practiced tests including RT-PCR, ACE and IHC on buffy coat, serum and skin samples, respectively. Immunoreactivity for bovine BVDV antigen as brown, coarsely to finely granular was observed within the cytoplasm of epidermic epithelial cells, hair follicles and subcutaneous stromal cells. Genetic sequence analyses showed both genotypes, BVDV-1 and BVDV-2. The new isolates were identified as BVDV1-FarsA, BVDV1-FarsB and BVDV2-FarsA in the phylogenetic tree. Since both genotypes of the virus are present in the region, our findings emphasize the importance of monitoring BVDV infection in cattle and suggest detection and elimination of PI animals for controlling and eradication of BVDV in Fars province.


pmid: 18557898
title: Cleavage of the NS2-3 protein in the cells of cattle persistently infected with non-cytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The NS2-3 of BVDV is cleaved in cultured cells infected with cp BVDV but not in those infected with ncp BVDV when tested more than 10 hours post infection. However, it is not known whether cleavage of NS2-3 occurs in vivo. In the present study, cleavage of NS2-3 in cattle persistently infected with BVDV was investigated. All BVDV isolated from PI animals were of the ncp biotype, and NS2-3 proteins were detected in bovine fetal muscular cells infected with these viruses. On the other hand, in the leukocytes of those PI animals, NS3 proteins, products of the cleavage of NS2-3 proteins, were detected. In addition, the NS3 proteins were also detected in leukocytes artificially infected with ncp BVDV. These results reveal that the NS2-3 protein of BVDV is cleaved in leukocytes. Furthermore, NS3 proteins were detected in many tissues of PI cattle, such as lymphoid tissue, brain, thyroid, lung, and kidney. These results suggest that the NS2-3 protein of ncp BVDV cleaves in vivo.


pmid: 18817290
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus infection alters global transcription profiles in bovine endothelial cells
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea viruses (BVDV) are significant pathogens of cattle worldwide. These viruses exist in both non-cytopathic and cytopathic biotypes. Non-cytopathic BVDV can establish persistent lifelong infections in cattle and are a frequent contaminant of biological reagents such as cell cultures and foetal bovine serum. We identified commercially available bovine aortic endothelial cells (BAECs) contaminated with BVDV. In this study, to determine if BVDV alters endothelial gene transcription patterns, serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) was used to compare gene expression profiles from uninfected and BVDV contaminated BAEC. SAGE is an open ended, quantitative method for characterizing global patterns of transcription. Comparison of expression profiles of BVDV-contaminated and noninfected cells revealed significant increases in the transcription of many genes including P-selectin, tryptophan tRNA synthetase and prostaglandin D2 synthase. These changes were validated by real-time PCR. Additionally, real-time PCR demonstrated that the response to LPS and dsRNA by contaminated cells, as well as cells acutely infected with noncytopathic BVDV, is altered. The altered response may be through the high level of expression of A20 and inhibition of activation of NF-kappaB. BAECs are commonly used as a model to study endothelial cell function in many different systems. As shown here, transcriptional and probable protein changes resulting from BVDV infection significantly alter cellular responses and may have a profound impact on experimental outcome. Transcriptomic analysis provided the initial clues leading to the characterization of this altered function.


pmid: 15107567
title: Genetic variety of bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 strains isolated from sheep
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 (BVDV-2) strains, isolated from sheep showing clinical symptoms of border disease, have been evaluated by the palindromic nucleotide substitution (PNS) method at the three variable loci (V1, V2 and V3) in the 5'-untranslated region (UTR) of genomic RNA. The characteristic two base-pairings common to the BVDV-2 species, a C-G pairing which was common to the V1 locus, and a G*U pairing common to the V2 locus, were observed in all tested strains. Strains BD-78 and C413 were identified by a unique C-G pairing at position 4 from the bottom of the V2 stem region, which is characteristic to BVDV-2b. BVDV-2d characteristic U-A pairing at position 18 of the V1 stem region was observed in five strains, Lees, 167 237, 168 149, 173 157 and 175 375. No strains have been assigned to the genotypes BVDV-2a or BVDV-2c. Furthermore, the investigation at the level of the 5'-UTR excluded the application in sheep of the proposed BVDV-2 genetic virulence markers described in cattle. The two specific positions of uracil and cytosine nucleotides related to low or high virulence where indifferently present in the ovine BVDV-2 strains responsible of border disease.


pmid: 20413912
title: Evidence of a humoral immune response against the prokaryotic expressed N-terminal autoprotease (N(pro)) protein of bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is an economically important pathogen of cattle and sheep belonging to the genus Pestivirus of the family Flaviviridae. Although the BVDV non-structural N-terminal protease (N(pro)) acts as an interferon antagonist and subverts the host innate immunity, little is known about its immunogenicity. Hence, we expressed a recombinant BVDV N(pro)-His fusion protein (28 kDa) in E. coli and determined the humoral immune response generated by it in rabbits. The antigenicity of the N(pro) protein was confirmed by western blot using anti-BVDV hyperimmune cattle, sheep and goat serum, and anti-N(pro) rabbit serum. When rabbits were immunized with the N(pro) protein, a humoral immune response was evident by 4 weeks and persisted till 10 weeks post immunization as detected by ELISA and western blot. Despite N(pro)-specific antibodies remaining undetectable in 80 serum samples from BVDV-infected sheep and goats, BVDV hyperimmune sera along with some of the field cattle, sheep and goat sera with high BVDV neutralizing antibody titres were found positive for N(pro) antibodies. Our results provide evidence that despite the low immunogenicity of the BVDV N(pro) protein, a humoral immune response is induced in cattle, sheep and goats only with repeated BVDV exposure.


pmid: 18834678
title: Cohabitation of pregnant white-tailed deer and cattle persistently infected with Bovine viral diarrhea virus results in persistently infected fawns
abstract: Economic losses due to infection with Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) have prompted introduction of organized control programs. These programs primarily focus on the removal of persistently infected (PI) animals, the main source of BVDV transmission. Recently, persistent BVDV infection was demonstrated experimentally in white-tailed deer, the most abundant wild ruminant in North America. Contact of cattle and white-tailed deer may result in interspecific BVDV transmission and birth of persistently infected offspring that could be a threat to control programs. The objective of this study was to assess the potential for interspecific BVDV transmission from persistently infected cattle cohabitated with pregnant white-tailed deer. Seven female and one male white-tailed deer were captured and bred in captivity. At approximately 50 days of gestation, two cattle persistently infected with BVDV 1 were cohabitated with the deer. In a pen of approximately 0.8 ha, both species shared food and water sources for a period of 60 days. Transmission of BVDV as indicated by seroconversion was demonstrated in all exposed adult deer. Of the seven pregnancies, four resulted in offspring that were infected with BVDV. Persistent infection was demonstrated in three singlet fawns by immunohistochemistry and ELISA on skin samples, PCR, and virus isolation procedures. Furthermore, two stillborn fetuses were apparently persistently infected. This is the first report of BVDV transmission from cattle to white-tailed deer using a model of natural challenge. Under appropriate circumstances, BVDV may efficiently cross the species barrier to cause transplacental infection and persistently infected offspring in a wildlife species.


pmid: 35503381
title: Seroprevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus antibodies and risk factors in dairy cattle from the central desert of Iran
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infects cattle worldwide and causes one of the most important economic diseases of the dairy industry. BVDV infection reduces reproductive efficiency, suppresses the immune system, and causes gastrointestinal and respiratory diseases. A first cross-sectional study was conducted in the central desert of Iran (Yazd and South Khorasan provinces) to estimate the seroprevalence and identify BVDV-related risk factors in dairy cattle. A total of 800 cows were randomly selected of 76 herds, and their serum samples were tested by the indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method for BVDV antibody detection. Data were analyzed using the logistic regression model. The serum prevalence of BVDV at animal and herd levels was 66.83% and 91.6%, respectively. Traditional housing system (OR = 3.22; 95% CI = 1.20-9.09) and cattle introduction to the herd (OR = 2.12; 95% CI = 1.21-3.70) were the important risk factors for BVDV seropositivity (p < 0.05). Increasing of age per year caused adding in 0.33 log (odds) of BVDV seropositivity (p < 0.05). It is necessary to implement control and eradication programs because of the high seroprevalence at the individual level and at the herd in the central desert of Iran.


pmid: 16055364
title: Enhancement of apoptosis via an extrinsic factor, TNF-alpha, in cells infected with cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Isolates of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) are divided into cytopathic (cp) and noncytopathic (ncp) biotypes according to their effect on cultured cells. Calves persistently infected with ncp BVDV are known to develop lethal mucosal disease (MD) after superinfection by cp BVDV. Although the UV-irradiated supernatant of cp BVDV-infected cells has been reported to have no capacity to induce cell death, we found that it could enhance cell death through apoptosis. Up-regulation of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) mRNAs was detected specifically in cp BVDV-infected primary cell cultures. Suppression of TNF-alpha via antisense oligonucleotide transfection or incubation with a polyclonal antibody against TNF-alpha resulted in attenuation of apoptosis induced by cp BVDV, suggesting that TNF-alpha participates in apoptosis execution. Although TNF-alpha is one of the iNOS-inducible factors, the iNOS up-regulation was not regulated by TNF-alpha. And iNOS was revealed to serve as anti-apoptotic factor, contrary to our expectation. In addition, the expression level of both TNF-alpha and iNOS mRNAs in the ncp BVDV-infected cells was kept lower than that in the mock-infected cells, suggesting that ncp BVDV reduced or interfered with the factor triggering the expression of both mRNAs. These characteristic mRNA transcriptions would help to explain why BVDV acts differently in cells as well as in vivo, depending on its biotype. To elucidate viral factors inducing TNF-alpha and iNOS may be critical to understand the mechanism of MD development, which closely correlates with cp BVDV-induced apoptosis.


pmid: 9637291
title: Segregation of bovine viral diarrhea virus isolated in Japan into genotypes
abstract: It was suggested that 3 strains of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolated from persistently infected calves in Tochigi prefecture in Japan belonged to BVDV type II. It was recognized lack of PstI site on the 5'-untranslated region of genome of them as well as BVDV type II reported previously. Inoculated with the 3 strains, the calves showed the mild decrease of platelet counts which was specific clinical sign of BVDV type II. We should report that the 3 strains were the first BVDV type II isolated in Japan. Neutralizing antibody titers of the antisera against the 3 strains using laboratory strains as neutralizing virus were lower than those of them using homologous strains. Therefore, it was indicated that the difference between BVDV type I and BVDV type II in the antigenicity.


pmid: 10732038
title: Changes in ovarian follicles following acute infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has been associated with several reproductive problems in cattle, including poor fertility, early embryonic deaths, abortion and congenital anomalies. Little is known about the cause of poor fertility in cows acutely infected with BVDV. The purpose of this study was to identify changes in ovarian function following acute infection with noncytopathic BVDV. The ovaries of 5 BVDV sero-negative and virus-negative pubertal heifers were monitored daily for 4 consecutive estrous cycles. The position and diameter of all follicles (> 5 mm) and luteal structures were recorded. Daily plasma samples were collected to measure peripheral progesterone and estradiol levels. Each heifer was infected intranasally with noncytopathic BVDV following ovulation of the second estrous cycle. The maximum diameter and growth rate of dominant anovulatory and ovulatory follicles were significantly reduced following acute BVDV infection. Similarly, the number of subordinate follicles associated with both the anovulatory and ovulatory follicle was reduced following infection. There were no significant differences in other follicle or luteal dynamic parameters or in peripheral progesterone or estradiol levels. Ovarian follicular growth was different during the first 2 estrous cycles following acute infection with BVDV when compared with the 2 estrous cycles preceding infection. These differences may be important in explaining reduced fertility in herds with acute BVDV infection.


pmid: 17706777
title: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses modulate toll-like receptors, cytokines and co-stimulatory molecules genes expression in bovine peripheral blood monocytes
abstract: We have used noncytopathic (ncp) and cytopathic (cp) Bovine Viral Diarrhea Viruses (BVDV) to determine the expression levels of TLR genes, type I IFN, pro-inflammatory and Th1/Th2 cytokine gene expression in bovine monocytes. In general, both BVDV strains had similar effects. However, we found some significant differences that could be due to biological differences between cp and ncp BVDV strains. TLR3 was significantly up-regulated in 1h ncp, but not in cp BVDV- infected monocytes, whereas TLR7 expression dominated in 24h infection with both BVDV strains. Type I IFN and IL-12 gene expression was also significantly up-regulated in 1h ncp, but not cp BVDV infection that correlated with the enhanced TLR3 gene expression. Both BVDV biotypes suppressed pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and IL-6, co-stimulatory molecules CD80 and CD86, but did not change Th1 type cytokine IL-12 and INF-gamma, gene expression after 24h infection. We hypothesize that BVDV may escape immune responses by altering the expression of TLR 3 and 7 and their signaling pathways.


pmid: 1330424
title: Effects in calves of mixed infections with bovine viral diarrhea virus and several other bovine viruses
abstract: The objective of this study was to verify whether a mixed infection in calves with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and other bovine viruses, such as bovid herpesvirus-4 (BHV-4), parainfluenza-3 (PI-3) and infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR) virus, would influence the pathogenesis of the BVDV infection sufficiently to result in the typical form of mucosal disease being produced. Accordingly, two experiments were undertaken. In one experiment calves were first infected with BVDV and subsequently with BHV-4 and IBR virus, respectively. The second experiment consisted in a simultaneous infection of calves with BVDV and PI-3 virus or BVDV and IBR virus. From the first experiment it seems that BVDV infection can be reactivated in calves by BHV-4 and IBR virus. Evidence of this is that BVDV, at least the cytopathic (CP) strain, was recovered from calves following superinfection. Moreover, following such superinfection the calves showed signs which could most likely be ascribed to the pathogenetic activity of BVDV. Superinfection, especially by IBR virus, created a more severe clinical response in calves that were initially infected with CP BVDV, than in those previously given the non-cytopathic (NCP) biotype of the virus. Simultaneous infection with PI-3 virus did not seem to modify to any significant extent the pathogenesis of the experimentally induced BVDV infection whereas a severe clinical response was observed in calves when simultaneous infection was made with BVDV and IBR virus.


pmid: 20589424
title: The extra 16-amino-acid peptide at C-terminal NS2 of the hypervirulent type-2 bovine viral diarrhea viruses has no effect on viral replication and NS2-3 processing of type-1 virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an economically important cattle pathogen with worldwide distribution. Besides the segregation of noncytopathic and cytopathic (CP) biotypes, BVDV exists as two genotypes. Both genotypes cause similar disease, and the majority of type-2 BVDV (BVDV-2) is no more virulent than type-1 viruses (BVDV-1). However, some BVDV-2 viruses are hypervirulent and causative reagents of a lethal disease called severe acute bovine viral diarrhea. Amino acid (aa) sequence analysis shows that the majority of hypervirulent BVDV-2 isolates contains an extra 16 aa peptide (-SSCPVPFDPSCHCNYF-) at C-terminal NS2 region. In this study, we investigated the flexibility of the corresponding NS2 region of BVDV-1 for tolerance of this peptide insertion and its effect on viral pathogenicity. Based on an infectious cDNA clone of BVDV-1 SD-1, a cDNA clone called pASD1-IN was constructed with insertion of the 16 aa peptide in the corresponding NS2 site. In vitro transcription and transfection of Madin-Darby bovine kidney (MDBK) cells resulted in the generation of infectious chimeric virus termed ASD1-IN. ASD1-IN does not show CP effect on MDBK cells and is similar to ASD1 in viral growth. Furthermore, ASD1-IN shows an NS2-3 processing pattern similar to ASD1. These results reveal that insertion of the 16 aa peptide at C-terminal NS2 of BVDV-1, at least for SD-1, has no effect on viral replication and NS2-3 processing in MDBK cells.


pmid: 11312340
title: Noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus inhibits double-stranded RNA-induced apoptosis and interferon synthesis
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a pestivirus of the Flaviviridae family, is an economically important cattle pathogen with a worldwide distribution. Both noncytopathic (ncp) and cytopathic (cp) biotypes of BVDV can be isolated from persistently infected cattle suffering from the lethal mucosal disease. The cp biotype correlates with the production of the NS3 nonstructural protein, which in the corresponding ncp biotype is present in its uncleaved form, NS23. Previously, we have shown that cp but not ncp BVDV induces the formation of alpha/beta interferons in bovine macrophages. In this study, we demonstrate that ncp BVDV inhibits the induction of apoptosis and the expression of interferon alpha/beta by poly(IC), a synthetic double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). Inhibition was observed only in cells which had been infected with ncp BVDV at least 12 h prior to the addition of dsRNA, which indicates that expression of viral proteins is necessary for the ncp virus to inhibit the effects of poly(IC). Additional experiments using transfected poly(IC) showed that ncp BVDV interfered with the intracellular action of dsRNA rather than with its uptake into the cells. Infected cells were not resistant to induction of apoptosis by actinomycin D or staurosporine, which suggests that ncp BVDV may specifically interfere with signaling through dsRNA. Interference with the innate antiviral host responses may explain the successful establishment of persistent infection by ncp BVDV in fetuses early in their development.


pmid: 19374131
title: Molecular modelling study of the 3D structure of the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) helicase
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a member of the Flaviviridae family of viruses and constitutes a very important pathogen for livestock around the world. The viral helicase is an enzyme essential for the proliferation and transmission of the virus. In this work a 3D-model of the BVDV helicase was produced using homology modelling techniques and the known 3D-structure of the hepatitis C helicase of the Flaviviridae family as template, in an attempt to provide the means for structure-based design of novel anti-BVDV agents.


pmid: 14672860
title: Comparative analysis on the 5'-untranslated region of bovine viral diarrhea virus isolated in Korea
abstract: Samples of 249 bovine abortuses, one intestine, and four diarrheal stools from 254 cows were collected, and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Subsequently, virus isolation was preformed with PCR-positive samples, and then PCR product of 5(')-untranslated region (UTR) of BVDV isolate was sequenced and analyzed. Among the samples collected, 20 (from 17 bovine abortuses, one intestine, and two diarrheal stools) were positive for BVDV RT-PCR; four BVDVs (from two bovine abortuses, one intestine, and one diarrheal stool) were isolated. When the four isolates were biotyped in cell culture, one BVDV isolate from a bovine abortus was cytopathic and the others were non-cytopathic. In addition, three isolates were genotyped as BVDV-1 and one isolate from a diarrheal stool as BVDV-2. In phylogenetic analysis, it suggested that the BVDV-2 isolate in Korea is closer to the North American strains than Asian strains. This is the first report on the identification and isolation of BVDV-2 in Korea.


pmid: 17551225
title: Genetic and pathobiological characterization of bovine viral diarrhea viruses recently isolated from cattle in Japan
abstract: The 475 strains of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolated from cattle in 12 prefectures of Japan in the last 7 years were phylogenetically classified as BVDV-1 or BVDV-2 on the basis of the nucleotide sequence of the 5'-untranslated region. BVDV-1 strains were further subtyped as 1a (101 strains), 1b (163), 1c (128), 1j (3), and So CP/75-like (1), and all of the 79 BVDV-2 strains belonged to subtype 2a. These 2a BVDVs contain two isolates that had high nucleotide identities with those of highly pathogenic BVDV-2 strains reported in North America (Pellerin et al., 1994). However, acute infection with severe mortality like North American outbreak was not observed and most of the present BVDV-2 strains were isolated from persistently infected (PI) cattle showing mild or no clinical sign. Moreover, it was revealed that 61.5% of the 39 PI cattle with cytopathogenic BVDVs did not show typical mucosal disease and 54.6% of the 405 PI animals only with non-cytopathogenic BVDVs were apparently healthy. The present results indicate that the prevention of the infection with an appropriate vaccine and active surveillance covering healthy cattle are required for the control of BVD.


pmid: 31727701
title: Nearly Complete Genome Sequences of Two Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Isolates, Subtype 1f Strain SLO/1170/2000 and Subtype 1d Strain SLO/2416/2002
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) subtypes 1f and 1d were isolated for the first time in Slovenia in 1999 and detected later in a majority of BVDV-infected cattle herds. Here, we report the first nearly complete genome sequences of noncytopathogenic BVDV-1f strain SLO/1170/2000 and cytopathogenic BVDV-1d strain SLO/2416/2002, isolated in Slovenia.


pmid: 11768131
title: Platelet aggregation responses and virus isolation from platelets in calves experimentally infected with type I or type II bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Altered platelet function has been reported in calves experimentally infected with type II bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). The purpose of the present study was to further evaluate the ability of BVDV isolates to alter platelet function and to examine for the presence of a virus-platelet interaction during BVDV infection. Colostrum-deprived Holstein calves were obtained immediately after birth, housed in isolation, and assigned to 1 of 4 groups (1 control and 3 treatment groups). Control calves (n = 4) were sham inoculated, while calves in the infected groups (n = 4 for each group) were inoculated by intranasal instillation with 10(7) TCID50 of either BVDV 890 (type II), BVDV 7937 (type II), or BVDV TGAN (type I). Whole blood was collected prior to inoculation (day 0) and on days 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 after inoculation for platelet function testing by optical aggregometry by using adenosine diphosphate and platelet activating factor. The maximum percentage aggregation and the slope of the aggregation curve decreased over time in BVDV-infected calves; however, statistically significant differences (Freidman repeated measures ANOVA on ranks, P < 0.05) were only observed in calves infected with the type II BVDV isolates. Bovine viral diarrhea virus was not isolated from control calves, but was isolated from all calves infected with both type II BVDV isolates from days 4 through 12 after inoculation. In calves infected with type I BVDV, virus was isolated from 1 of 4 calves on days 4 and 12 after inoculation and from all calves on days 6 and 8 after inoculation. Altered platelet function was observed in calves infected with both type II BVDV isolates, but was not observed in calves infected with type I BVDV. Altered platelet function may be important as a difference in virulence between type I and type II BVDV infection.


pmid: 10935880
title: Bovine viral diarrhea viral infections in feeder calves with respiratory disease: interactions with Pasteurella spp., parainfluenza-3 virus, and bovine respiratory syncytial virus
abstract: The prevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections was determined in a group of stocker calves suffering from acute respiratory disease. The calves were assembled after purchase from Tennessee auctions and transported to western Texas. Of the 120 calves, 105 (87.5%) were treated for respiratory disease. Sixteen calves died during the study (13.3%). The calves received a modified live virus BHV-1 vaccine on day 0 of the study. During the study, approximately 5 wk in duration, sera from the cattle, collected at weekly intervals, were tested for BVDV by cell culture. Sera were also tested for neutralizing antibodies to BVDV types 1 and 2, bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), parainfluenza-3 virus (PI-3V), and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV). The lungs from the 16 calves that died during the study were collected and examined by histopathology, and lung homogenates were inoculated onto cell cultures for virus isolation. There were no calves persistently infected with BVDV detected in the study, as no animals were viremic on day 0, nor were any animals viremic at the 2 subsequent serum collections. There were, however, 4 animals with BVDV type 1 noncytopathic (NCP) strains in the sera from subsequent collections. Viruses were isolated from 9 lungs: 7 with PI-3V, 1 with NCP BVDV type 1, and 1 with both BVHV-1 and BVDV. The predominant bacterial species isolated from these lungs was Pasteurella haemolytica serotype 1. There was serologic evidence of infection with BVDV types 1 and 2, PI-3V, and BRSV, as noted by seroconversion (> or = 4-fold rise in antibody titer) in day 0 to day 34 samples collected from the 104 survivors: 40/104 (38.5%) to BVDV type 1; 29/104 (27.9%) to BVDV type 2; 71/104 (68.3%) to PI-3V; and 81/104 (77.9%) to BRSV. In several cases, the BVDV type 2 antibody titers may have been due to crossreacting BVDV type 1 antibodies; however, in 7 calves the BVDV type 2 antibodies were higher, indicating BVDV type 2 infection. At the outset of the study, the 120 calves were at risk (susceptible to viral infections) on day 0 because they were seronegative to the viruses: 98/120 (81.7%), < 1:4 to BVDV type 1; 104/120 (86.7%) < 1:4 to BVDV type 2; 86/120 (71.7%) < 1:4 to PI-3V; 87/120 (72.5%) < 1:4 to BRSV; and 111/120 (92.5%) < 1:10 to BHV-1. The results of this study indicate that BVDV types 1 and 2 are involved in acute respiratory disease of calves with pneumonic pasteurellosis. The BVDV may be detected by virus isolation from sera and/or lung tissues and by serology. The BVDV infections occurred in conjunction with infections by other viruses associated with respiratory disease, namely, PI-3V and BRSV. These other viruses may occur singly or in combination with each other. Also, the study indicates that purchased calves may be highly susceptible, after weaning, to infections by BHV-1, BVDV types 1 and 2, PI-3V, and BRSV early in the marketing channel.


pmid: 7667908
title: Development of a PCR amplification assay as a screening test using bulk milk samples for identifying dairy herds infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The approach of cDNA synthesis followed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification was used to develop a rapid screening test for the detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in bulk tank milk samples. The initial development of this detection method was done using lactating Holstein cows; 1 acutely infected with BVDV following experimental inoculation and 2 persistently infected (PI) with BVDV. Viral RNA was extracted from somatic cells purified from whole milk using a guanidinium isothiocyanate and phenol/chloroform extraction method. Oligonucleotide primers were selected from the 5'untranslated region (5'UTR) and p80 region of BVDV genome. In the acutely infected cow, BVDV RNA was identified from days 6 to 10 postinoculation. Viral RNA extracted from somatic cells of milk from PI cows was detected by PCR using both 5'UTR and p80 primer sets. The sensitivity of PCR detection was determined by preparing dilutions of whole milk obtained from the BVDV persistently infected animals with milk from a BVDV-negative cow followed by purification of somatic cells and RNA extraction. BVDV was detected in milk serially diluted to 1:640 using PCR amplification. In addition, PCR amplification was 14.6 times more sensitive than virus isolation in detecting BVDV RNA in purified milk somatic cells. PCR detected BVDV RNA from a minimum of 580 somatic cells while the detection limit of virus isolation was 8500 cells. The sensitivity and specificity of BVDV amplification were confirmed by Southern hybridization analysis. BVDV RNA was detected using PCR in 33 out of 136 bulk milk samples collected from 124 individual herds using the 5'UTR primer set. These results indicate that PCR analysis of bulk tank milk samples may provide a rapid and sensitive method of screening herds for the presence of BVDV infections.


pmid: 24079841
title: Herd-level risk factors for bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in dairy herds from Southern Brazil
abstract: A cross-sectional study was carried out to identify risk factors for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in 300 randomly selected dairy herds which were tested for antibodies in bulk tank milk (BTM) using a commercial indirect ELISA kit (SVANOVA). Results from the analysis were interpreted according to the Swedish BVDV control scheme. The testing revealed 129 (43%) BTM BVDV antibody-positive herds. Use of artificial insemination (AI) and herd size were significantly associated with BVDV serological status (P<0.05). Dairy herds that use AI had 2.82 increased odds of BVDV-seropositivity (95% CI: 1.02-7.24). Since the semen used in the studied population come from known selected sires, it was hypothesized that AI technicians should represent an important risk factor because the increasing number of visitors in the farm can introduce the virus through the clothes, shoes and contaminated equipment.


pmid: 35372539
title: A Serosurvey for Ruminant Pestivirus Exposure Conducted Using Sera From Stray Mexico Origin Cattle Captured Crossing Into Southern Texas
abstract: The US Department of Agriculture (USDA), Animal Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), Cattle Fever Tick Eradication Program (CFTEP) monitor a quarantine zone along the Texas border to prevent the introduction of stray livestock carrying cattle fever ticks entering the United States from Mexico. Stray cattle collected by CFTEP are checked for ticks and several infectious disease-causing pathogens, but not for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). BVDV is one of the most economically impactful viruses affecting US cattle producers. BVDV is present in all parts of the world, but it has been demonstrated that another distantly related pestivirus, HoBi-like pestivirus (HoBiPev), can also cause BVD. To date, HoBiPev has not been detected in the United States, but is commonly found in Brazil, and sporadically in Europe and Asia. The objective of the current study was to evaluate the seroprevalence of pestiviruses, with a specific focus on HoBiPev, in stray cattle. Virus neutralization (VN) assay was used to determine seroprevalence (or antibody titers) of BVDV-1, BVDV-2, and HoBiPev. Approximately 50% (67 of 134) of the samples were seropositive for pestiviruses; all 67 positive samples were positive (50%) for BVDV-1, 66 samples of the 67 were positive (49.3%) for BVDV-2, and the same 66 samples of the 67 were also positive (49.3%) for HoBiPev. Due to the antigenic cross-reactivity among Pestiviruses, the comparative antibody against each pestivirus was calculated from all VN-positive samples. Titers were clearly higher against BVDV-1, and only one sample had a titer clearly higher against BVDV-2. No sample had an antibody titer higher for HoBiPev, and while this does not prove the absence of HoBiPev, it does provide evidence that the prevalence of HoBiPev is less predominant than BVDV-1. Additionally, data from these samples provide evidence on the susceptibility of animals that may enter into the United States, with ~50% of the animals seronegative for bovine pestiviruses. This cattle population provides a unique opportunity to evaluate and monitor changes in seroprevalence of economically important cattle diseases affecting the cattle industry.


pmid: 8970985
title: Recovery of cytopathogenic and noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea viruses from cDNA constructs
abstract: After cDNA cloning of the genome of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolate CP7, a full-length cDNA clone was constructed. RNA transcribed in vitro from this construct was shown to direct the generation of infectious BVDV upon transfection into bovine cells. To confirm the de novo generation of infectious BVDV from cloned cDNA a genetically tagged virus was constructed. In comparison with parental BVDV, the recombinant virus was slightly retarded in growth. The NS2 coding region of the CP7 genome contains a duplication of 27 nucleotides which is not present in the genome of its noncytopathogenic counterpart, NCP7. Exchange of a small fragment harboring this insertion against the corresponding part of the NCP7 sequence led to recovery of noncytopathogenic BVDV. Alteration of the construct by introduction of a fragment derived from a cytopathogenic BVDV defective interfering particle resulted in a chimeric defective interfering particle which exhibits a cytopathogenic phenotype. These findings confirm the hypothesis that the recombination-induced alterations in the genomes of cytopathogenic BVDV are responsible for the induction of cell lysis.


pmid: 18753220
title: Formation of bovine viral diarrhea virus E1-E2 heterodimers is essential for virus entry and depends on charged residues in the transmembrane domains
abstract: The envelope of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) contains the glycoproteins Erns, E1 and E2. Complementation of a recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) with BVDV glycoproteins resulted in infectious pseudotyped viruses. To elucidate the specific role of each of the single envelope glycoproteins during viral entry, pseudotypes were generated bearing the BVDV envelope proteins in different combinations. Pseudoviruses that contained E1 and E2 but not Erns were infectious, indicating that Erns is dispensable for virus entry. VSV/BVDV pseudotypes with chimeric proteins (the ectodomain of the BVDV glycoprotein and the transmembrane domain of the VSV-G protein) were not infectious. The fact that E1-E2 heterodimers were not detected if one of the proteins was chimeric indicated that the heterodimers are crucial for BVDV entry. It was shown by site-directed mutagenesis that the charged amino acids in the transmembrane domains of BVDV E1 (lysine and arginine) and the charged amino acid in the transmembrane domain of E2 (arginine) play a key role in heterodimer formation. Pseudoviruses bearing the mutation E2-R/A, where the charged amino acid was substituted by alanine, were not infectious, supporting the hypothesis that E1-E2 heterodimers are essential for BVDV entry.


pmid: 18950967
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus is inactivated when whole milk from persistently infected cows is heated to prepare semen extender
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) can be present in cryopreserved bovine semen and be transmitted through artificial insemination. Because BVDV can be shed in milk, the virus might also be introduced as a contaminant of milk-based semen extenders. Thus, the purpose of this study was to evaluate the epidemiologic risk of using heated, BVDV-contaminated milk to prepare semen extender. Milk was obtained from cows free of and persistently infected (PI) with BVDV. Six replicates of milk samples were processed by heating (85-92.2 degrees C, 10min). Samples of milk collected before and after heating were assayed for BVDV. Additionally, milk was injected intravenously into eight BVDV seronegative calves to monitor for seroconversion and viral infection. Virus was not detected in any milk samples from negative animals. Virus was consistently isolated from unheated milk samples from PI cows by passage of somatic cells, ultracentrifugation, and animal inoculation. Virus was usually detected in these samples by RT-nPCR (reverse transcription nested polymerase chain reaction). In heated milk samples from PI cows, no infectious BVDV was detected using any technique, but viral RNA was detected using RT-nPCR in four of six replicates. Bovine viral diarrhea virus in milk from PI cows was inactivated by heating. Therefore, properly heated milk used in semen extenders will not result in transmission of infectious BVDV. Although RT-nPCR detected the presence of viral RNA in milk samples after heating, the virus was not infectious as demonstrated by lack of replication despite using multiple sensitive techniques.


pmid: 27355875
title: Computational Study Exploring the Interaction Mechanism of Benzimidazole Derivatives as Potent Cattle Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Inhibitors
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections are prevailing in cattle populations on a worldwide scale. The BVDV RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), as a promising target for new anti-BVDV drug development, has attracted increasing attention. To explore the interaction mechanism of 65 benzimidazole scaffold-based derivatives as BVDV inhibitors, presently, a computational study was performed based on a combination of 3D-QSAR, molecular docking, and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations. The resultant optimum CoMFA and CoMSIA models present proper reliabilities and strong predictive abilities (with Q(2) = 0. 64, R(2)ncv = 0.93, R(2)pred = 0.80 and Q(2) = 0. 65, R(2)ncv = 0.98, R(2)pred = 0.86, respectively). In addition, there was good concordance between these models, molecular docking, and MD results. Moreover, the MM-PBSA energy analysis reveals that the major driving force for ligand binding is the polar solvation contribution term. Hopefully, these models and the obtained findings could offer better understanding of the interaction mechanism of BVDV inhibitors as well as benefit the new discovery of more potent BVDV inhibitors.


pmid: 12810871
title: Differential effects of bovine viral diarrhoea virus on monocytes and dendritic cells
abstract: Various pathogens have been shown to infect antigen-presenting cells and affect their capacity to interact with and stimulate T-cell responses. We have used an antigenically identical pair of non-cytopathic (ncp) and cytopathic (cp) bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) isolates to determine how the two biotypes affect monocyte and dendritic cell (DC) function. We have shown that monocytes and DCs are both susceptible to infection with ncp BVDV and cp BVDV in vitro. In addition, monocytes infected with ncp BVDV were compromised in their ability to stimulate allogeneic and memory CD4(+) T cell responses, but DCs were not affected. This was not due to down-regulation of a number of recognized co-stimulatory molecules including CD80, CD86 and CD40. Striking differences in the response of the two cell types to infection with cytopathic virus were seen. Dendritic cells were not susceptible to the cytopathic effect caused by cp BVDV, whereas monocytes were killed. Analysis of interferon (IFN)-alpha/beta production showed similar levels in monocytes and DCs exposed to cp BVDV, but none was detected in cells exposed to ncp BVDV. We conclude that the prevention of cell death in DCs is not associated with enhanced production of IFN-alpha/beta, as proposed for influenza virus, but is by a distinct mechanism.


pmid: 19428753
title: Microarray analysis reveals distinct signaling pathways transcriptionally activated by infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus in different cell types
abstract: Infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) causes different effects depending on its biotype in vitro; cytopathogenic (cp) strains induce apoptosis, type I interferon (IFN), and various stress-mediated responses, whereas non-cytopathogenic (ncp) strains do not. However, comprehensive transcriptional profiles of the cells infected with BVDV are still unknown. Here we performed microarray analysis of BVDV-infected MDBK epithelial cells and bovine fetal muscle (BFM) fibroblast cells. Infection of both cell types with cp BVDV, but not ncp BVDV, stimulated marked up-regulation of numerous genes belonging to diverse functional classes. However, the pattern of gene expression detected in both cell types was highly distinct from each other. Notably, upon cp BVDV infection, BFM cells exhibited marked induction of IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs), whereas MDBK cells characteristically up-regulated endoplasmic reticulum stress-inducible genes, such as tribbles homolog 3 (TRB3), CHOP and asparagine synthase, and showed much weaker induction of ISGs than BFM cells. This study highlights unexpected diversity in the response of different cell types to BVDV infection.


pmid: 12186882
title: Inhibition of beta interferon transcription by noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus is through an interferon regulatory factor 3-dependent mechanism
abstract: The induction and inhibition of the interferon (IFN) response and apoptosis by bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has been examined. Here we show that prior infection of cells by noncytopathogenic BVDV (ncp BVDV) fails to block transcriptional responses to alpha/beta IFN. In contrast, ncp BVDV-infected cells fail to produce IFN-alpha/beta or MxA in response to double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) or infection with a heterologous virus (Semliki Forest virus [SFV]). ncp BVDV preinfection is unable to block cp BVDV- or SFV-induced apoptosis. The effects of ncp BVDV infection on the transcription factors controlling the IFN-beta induction pathway have been analyzed. The transcription factor NF-kappa B was not activated following ncp BVDV infection, but ncp BVDV infection was not able to block the activation of NF-kappa B by either SFV or tumor necrosis factor alpha. Furthermore, ncp BVDV infection did not result in the activation of stress kinases (JNK1 and JNK2) or the phosphorylation of transcription factors ATF-2 and c-Jun; again, ncp BVDV infection was not able to block their activation by SFV. Interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF-3) was shown to be translocated to the nuclei of infected cells in response to ncp BVDV, although DNA-binding of IRF-3 was not seen in nuclear extracts. In contrast, an IRF-3-DNA complex was observed in nuclear extracts from cells infected with SFV, but the appearance of this complex was blocked when cells were previously exposed to ncp BVDV. We conclude that the inhibition of IFN induction by this pestivirus involves a block to IRF-3 function, and we speculate that this may be a key characteristic for the survival of pestiviruses in nature.


pmid: 9495536
title: Genetic heterogeneity of bovine viral diarrhoea viruses isolated in Southern Africa
abstract: Seventy three field isolates of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), obtained from cattle in Mozambique and South Africa, were characterised by comparative nucleotide sequence analysis of part of the 5' non-coding region (5'NCR) of the viral genome. The target region was amplified by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The amplicons were cloned in pUC 19 plasmid and both strands were sequenced by T7 polymerase dideoxynucleotide chain-termination sequencing or directly by cycle sequencing. The 245 base pair (bp) nucleotide sequences, derived from the 5'NCR, were aligned and compared to the corresponding positions of published sequences of BVDV type I and II strains and of pestiviruses of ovine and porcine origin. The phylogenetic trees, generated from those comparisons, allowed the Southern African isolates to be assigned to two main groups within the BVDV I genotype. Group A could be subdivided into three clusters, two of which grouped with BVDV strains of European and American origin. The third cluster did not group with any known BVDV I strains and it was confirmed in a comparison from the NS3 coding region. Group B contained more divergent isolates which differed by 18-23%, from BVDV I reference strains NADL, Osloss and SD-1 and comprised another distinct subset within the BVDV I genotype. This grouping was consistent in a comparison involving the NS2-NS3 region. It was concluded that BVD viruses occurring in Southern Africa are genetically diverse, comprising different variants within the BVDV I genotype. They include viruses similar to BVDVs found in Europe and America and others apparently rare or absent in those continents, termed here as BVDV Ic and Id. The co-existence of BVDV strains of European and American origin in certain areas both in Mozambique and South Africa, indicates a probable introduction of those viruses through imports of cattle or through potentially infectious bovine products. In addition, the detection of isolates apparently rare or absent from Europe and America may indicate the presence of African variants of BVDV I (Pestivirus 1).


pmid: 10785940
title: [Contamination of bovine fetal serum with bovine viral diarrhea virus]
abstract: Fetal bovine serum (FBS) used in cell culture may be contaminated with viruses, among them bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) affecting the production of biological reagents and the results of diagnosis. The filtration process used in the preparation of commercial FBS abrogates most viral agents that may be present in raw FBS, but BVDV may pass through the filters because of its small size and its pleomorphism. While detection of bovine herpes virus-1 and parainfluenza-3 (PI-3) is determined by observation of the cytopathic effect, and also by hemadsorption in the case of PI-3, the most frequently isolated BVDV is non cytopathic, and infects cells without morphological alterations, inducing problems that arise after several cell generations. Batches of raw and processed FBS were analyzed. Frequencies of BVDV detection in raw serum in Argentina were similar to those published for USA. By conventional methods for BVDV detection, only 2 of 20 commercial batches of FBS had BVDV. Using cell cultures maintained with high concentrations of the serum under study for at least 2 weeks, with detection of viral antigen by indirect immunofluorescence, the percentage of BVDV detection was 80%. This method shows that most lots of commercial FBS contain BVDV. RT-PCR allows faster detection of the viral genome, but it must be validated, as it does not show viral replication. To eliminate the problem of BVDV contamination in FBS, only gamma irradiated FBS is used in our laboratory.


pmid: 1966724
title: Bovine virus diarrhoea virus: speculation and observations on current concepts
abstract: This final chapter highlights the advances and some of the unanswered questions concerning bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) presented in this Review by specialists from around the world. Persistently viraemic cattle play an essential role in the dissemination of BVDV but it is suggested that acute infections with the virus are also important. The role of latency is considered but, as yet, there is no evidence that it plays a part in pathogenesis. It is well established that BVDV, Border disease virus and hog cholera virus infect sheep and pigs. There is also some indication that pestiviruses may be involved in other infections of ruminants, such as syndrome X and hyena disease. They also infect other ruminants, such as deer, and human infections have been reported. It is now known that the pathogenesis of mucosal disease is due to the combined action of the two BVDV biotypes. However, the cause of death remains an enigma. It is suggested that, due to the importance of this syndrome, it may be an appropriate time to reconsider the use of "mucosal disease virus" to replace the ungainly name "BVDV".


pmid: 12584672
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1- and type 2-specific bovine T lymphocyte-subset responses following modified-live virus vaccination
abstract: Expression of CD25 (interleukin-2 receptor alpha chain) was used to monitor antigen-specific activation of T lymphocyte subsets (CD4+, CD8+, and gamma delta T cells) from cattle immunized with modified-live virus (MLV) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) vaccines. Two groups of 15 animals each were vaccinated with one dose of either BVDV genotype 1 (BVDV-1) or BVDV-1 and BVDV genotype 2 (BVDV-1/2). Six animals negative for both BVDV antibody and BVDV virus were used as negative controls. Three animals vaccinated 7 and 5 weeks before the start of the experiment with MLV BVDV-1 vaccine served as positive controls. Blood samples were taken from the negative control group, the positive control group, and the BVDV-1/2 group 0, 21, 35, 60, and 90 days after vaccination. Blood samples were taken from the BVDV-1 group 0, 21, and 90 days after vaccination. Isolated peripheral blood lymphocytes from immunized and control animals were incubated for 5 days with and without BVDV-1 or BVDV-2. Compared with nonvaccinated animals, a significant (P <.05) increase in expression of CD25 by CD4+ (60 days), CD8+, and gammadelta T (35 to 90 days) lymphocytes from the group given BVDV-1/2 was detected following in vitro exposure to BVDV-1 or BVDV-2 after vaccination. The CD8+ and gammadelta T cells from the group vaccinated with BVDV-1 had significantly (P <.05) increased expression of CD25 compared with nonvaccinates following postvaccination exposure to in vitro BVDV-1 but not to BVDV-2. There was no significant difference between the two vaccinated groups in CD25 expression on any of the T cell subsets in response to BVDV-1 or BVDV-2 exposure. A single administration of MLV BVDV vaccine may be more effective at stimulating CD8+ and gammadelta T cell-specific immune responses to the homologous genotype than to the heterologous genotype.


pmid: 12887178
title: Patterns of cellular gene expression in cells infected with cytopathic or non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in cattle is responsible for mucosal disease; an invariably fatal syndrome characterized by the recovery of two BVDV strains: cytopathic (cp) or noncytopathic (ncp). To understand the cellular responses to cp BVDV infection, we carried out differential display-polymerase chain reaction (DD-PCR) analysis of gene expression in infected cells. Altered expression of 14 genes involved in several functions was observed in cells infected with cp BVDV: (1) immune regulation, such as CD46, FKBP-12, and osteopontin (OPN); (2) apoptosis-related cysteine proteases like calpain; (3) signaling plasma membrane proteins such as integrin beta1, and prion protein; and (4) unknown function genes. Northern blot analysis of the expression of these genes in ncp BVDV infected cells revealed that while the expression of some genes was affected as in cp BVDV infected cells, others show a clearly contrary change. We postulate that a cause-effect relationship may exist between the differential gene expression alterations that characterize cp and ncp BVDV infections and the unique diseases associated with each BVDV biotype.


pmid: 19436580
title: Multiple diagnostic tests to identify cattle with Bovine viral diarrhea virus and duration of positive test results in persistently infected cattle
abstract: Several tests for Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were applied to samples collected monthly from December 20, 2005, through November 27, 2006 (day 0 to day 342) from 12 persistently infected (PI) cattle with BVDV subtypes found in US cattle: BVDV-1a, BVDV-1b, and BVDV-2a. The samples included clotted blood for serum, nasal swabs, and fresh and formalin-fixed ear notches. The tests were as follows: titration of infectious virus in serum and nasal swabs; antigen-capture (AC) enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), or ACE, on serum, nasal swabs, and fresh ear notches; gel-based polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing of serum, nasal swabs, and fresh ear notches; immunohistochemical (IHC) testing of formalin-fixed ear notches; and serologic testing for BVDV antibodies in serum. Of the 12 animals starting the study, 3 died with mucosal disease. The ACE and IHC tests on ear notches had positive results throughout the study, as did the ACE and PCR tests on serum. There was detectable virus in nasal swabs from all the cattle throughout the study except for a few samples that were toxic to cell cultures. The serum had a virus titer > or = log(10) 1.60 in all samples from all the cattle except for 3 collections from 1 animal. Although there were several equivocal results, the PCR test most often had positive results. The BVDV antibodies were due to vaccination or exposure to heterologous strains and did not appear to interfere with any BVDV test. These findings illustrate that PI cattle may be identified by several tests, but differentiation of PI cattle from cattle with acute BVDV infection requires additional testing, especially of blood samples and nasal swabs positive on initial testing. Also, calves PI with BVDV are continual shedders of infectious virus, as shown by the infectivity of nasal swabs over the 11-mo study.


pmid: 10729080
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus: its effects on estradiol, progesterone and prostaglandin secretion in the cow
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a major cattle pathogen responsible for a spectrum of symptoms, including reproductive failure. This study was designed to establish the effects of BVDV infection on estradiol, progesterone and PGF2alpha secretion in the cow. Seven BVDV-free cows were challenged with non-cytopathogenic BVDV (strain Pe 515: 5x10(6) tissue culture infected dose50) so that peak viremia occurred during the initial phase of luteal development in a synchronized estrous cycle. Ovulation was also synchronized in 7 sham-infected animals. Within 2 wk of inoculation, viremia, leukopenia and serum neutralizing antibodies were recorded in all of the BVDV-infected cows but not the sham-infected animals. Between Day 4 and Day 9 post estrus the BVDV-infected cows had significantly (P<0.01) lower plasma estradiol levels than the sham-infected animals. However, the BVDV infection did not alter rectal temperatures, plasma progesterone concentrations or PGF2alpha secretion 17, 18 and 19 d post estrus. These data highlight a potential causal link between BVDV viremia, endocrine dysfunction and poor fertility in the cow.


pmid: 8380838
title: Identification of the cell surface receptor for bovine viral diarrhoea virus by using anti-idiotypic antibodies
abstract: We have produced and characterized polyclonal anti-idiotypic antibodies (anti-ids) that mimic the antigenic structures of gp53 from bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). In this study, the anti-ids were used to identify cell receptors for BVDV. The anti-ids bound specifically to bovine cells, as determined by flow cytometric analysis, and inhibitory binding assays showed that they bound to the cell surface receptors for BVDV. A cell surface protein with an M(r) of approximately 50K was immunoprecipitated by the anti-ids from MDBK cells; this was blocked by preincubation of cell lysate with BVDV. This indicates that the 50K protein might be a specific receptor for BVDV gp53. Thirteen BVDV strains were used to evaluate inhibition of anti-id binding to MDBK cells and inhibition of BVDV infection of anti-id-treated MDBK cell monolayers. Results demonstrated that both processes were inhibited to varying degrees depending on virus strain. The results suggested that multiple receptors for BVDV attachment may exist on MDBK cells, and that different virus strains do not have the same receptor.


pmid: 14519332
title: Analytical sensitivity of assays used for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus in semen samples from the Southeastern United States
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a significant pathogen that can be shed in the semen of infected bulls. Thus, screening for BVDV in semen of bulls is recommended prior to their entry into an artificial insemination center. No previous research has compared the analytical sensitivity of reverse transcription-nested polymerase chain reaction (RT-nPCR) and virus isolation assays for detection of BVDV in semen from an infected bull. Therefore, the goals of this research were to compare the analytical sensitivity of RT-nPCR and virus isolation assays for BVDV in semen and to apply these assays to determine the prevalence in the Southeastern United States of bulls that lack viremia yet shed BVDV in semen. Semen collected from a bull that was persistently infected with BVDV was serially diluted (1/10) in semen from uninfected bulls and frozen in liquid nitrogen as raw, partially extended or fully extended semen. Subsequently, samples of semen were assayed by virus isolation and RT-nPCR. Viral detection was more sensitive in extended semen samples than in raw semen samples and more sensitive by RT-nPCR than virus isolation. After this evaluation of analytical sensitivity, serum and semen were collected from 558 post-pubertal bulls in our region. These samples were tested for BVDV by virus isolation. Partially extended semen was also assayed for BVDV by RT-nPCR. All samples were negative by all assays for BVDV. The application of analytically sensitive assays reveals a very low prevalence (</=0.54%) of BVDV in semen from bulls in the Southeastern United States.


pmid: 10605142
title: Serological and molecular diagnosis of bovine viral diarrhoea virus and evidence of other viral infections in dairy calves with respiratory disease in Venezuela
abstract: An investigation based on 2 studies was carried out to assess the involvement of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV), bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BHV-1), and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) in calf respiratory disease in dairy farms in Venezuela. In the first study, 8 farms were selected and paired serum samples from 42 calves with respiratory disease were tested by ELISA for antibodies to the 3 viruses. Seroconversion to BVDV, BHV-1, and BRSV was found to 5, 2, and 6 farms out of the 8, respectively. The proportion of calves that showed seroconversion to BVDV, BHV-1, and BRSV were 19%, 14%, and 26%, respectively. In the second study, another farm having previous serological evidence of BVDV infection was selected. The decline of maternal antibodies against BVDV was monitored in 20 calves and the half-life of maternal antibodies was 34 +/- 12 days presumably indicating an early natural infection with BVDV. Furthermore, sera free of BVDV antibodies that were collected in studies 1 and 2 and were assayed for the presence of BVDV by nested RT-PCR. Two BVDV strains were detected and compared to those of ruminant and porcine pestiviruses. Both strains were assigned to subgroup Ib of type I BVDV. This investigation provides information on BVDV genotypes circulating in Venezuela and may contribute to the establishment of official control programmes against the viruses studied.


pmid: 20129656
title: Intrauterine inoculation of seronegative heifers with bovine viral diarrhea virus concurrent with transfer of in vivo-derived bovine embryos
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has been shown to be associated with single transferable in vivo-derived bovine embryos despite washing and trypsin treatment. Hence, the primary objective was to evaluate the potential of BVDV to be transmitted via the intrauterine route at the time of embryo transfer. In vivo-derived bovine embryos (n=10) were nonsurgically collected from a single Bos tarus donor cow negative for BVDV. After collection and washing, embryos were placed into transfer media containing BVDV (SD-1; Type 1a). Each of the 10 embryos was individually loaded into an 0.25-mL straw, which was then nonsurgically transferred into the uterus of 1 of the 10 seronegative recipients on Day 0. The total quantity of virus transferred into the uterus of each of the 10 Bos tarus recipients was 878 cell culture infective doses to the 50% end point (CCID(50))/mL. Additionally, control heifers received 1.5 x 10(6) CCID(50) BVDV/.5 mL without an embryo (positive) or heat-inactivated BVDV (negative). The positive control heifer and all 10 recipients of virus-exposed embryos exhibited viremia by Day 6 and seroconverted by Day 15 after transfer. The negative control heifer did not exhibit a viremia or seroconvert. At 30 d after embryo transfer, 6 of 10 heifers in the treatment group were pregnant; however, 30 d later, only one was still pregnant. This fetus was nonviable and was positive for BVDV. In conclusion, the quantity of BVDV associated with bovine embryos after in vitro exposure can result in viremia and seroconversion of seronegative recipients after transfer into the uterus during diestrus.


pmid: 21482158
title: Antibody responses against non-structural protein 3 of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in milk and serum samples from animals immunised with an inactivated vaccine
abstract: Antibodies against non-structural protein 3 (NS3, p80) of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) were determined in milk from cows vaccinated with an inactivated BVDV vaccine and compared to serum antibody levels. Animals in one herd were vaccinated with an inactivated BVDV vaccine according to the standard protocol and animals from a second herd with an intensive schedule. Serum and milk samples were tested for BVDV NS3 antibodies using five commercial ELISAs. With a few exceptions, vaccination according to the standard schedule did not induce BVDV NS3-specific antibodies in serum or milk. However, after vaccination according to the intensive schedule, anti-NS3 antibodies were detected for a short time in serum and, to a lesser extent, in milk. Bulk milk was a suitable substrate for BVDV monitoring of herds vaccinated with the inactivated BVD vaccine.


pmid: 9870585
title: Monoclonal antibodies to the E2 protein of a new genotype (type 2) of bovine viral diarrhea virus define three antigenic domains involved in neutralization
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has recently been segregated into two genotypes, namely, BVDV 1 and BVDV 2. Viruses of the BVDV 2 genotype are a cause of hemorrhagic and acute fatal disease in cattle in the US and Canada. In this study, monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) to the newly described BVDV 2 were produced after immunization with virus or a combination of virus and E2 peptide. From an original panel of 17 mAbs, 13 mAbs were identified as E2-specific by reactivity with a BVDV 2 recombinant E2 protein expressed in insect cells. Nine E2 mAbs were observed to be virus-neutralizing. The E2 epitopes represented by the mAbs were found to be highly conserved among BVDV 2 isolates associated with hemorrhagic or severe disease in cattle. Except for one virus-neutralizing E2 mAb, the mAbs showed few or relatively weak cross-reactions with BVDV 1. Two non-neutralizing E2 mAbs were BVDV 2-specific. In contrast to BVDV 1 for which conserved neutralizing epitopes have been mapped in one immunodominant domain, the virus-neutralizing E2 mAbs produced to BVDV 2 were found to bind to highly conserved epitopes in three antigenic domains.


pmid: 19112115
title: Distribution of bovine viral diarrhea virus antigen in aborted fetal and neonatal goats by immunohistochemistry
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in goats can result in severe reproductive losses, with abortion rates reaching 80%. Infection with BVDV in aborted goat fetuses and stillborn kids can result in placentitis, encephalitis, myocarditis, and thymic depletion. This study investigates the distribution of viral antigen within the organ systems of aborted goat fetuses, stillborn kids, and nonviable kids infected with BVDV at various stages of gestation using immunohistochemistry (IHC). Virus antigen was detected within the placenta (8/13), thymus (4/9), heart (4/11), and brain (4/15) of affected goats. Uncommonly, BVDV antigen was detected within the skin (1/14), liver (1/13), kidney (1/12), lung (1/11), and trachea (1/3). BVDV antigen was not detected within the spleen (0/9), nasal turbinate (0/2), or thyroid (0/3). The results of this study indicate that placenta, heart, thymus, and brain are the most reliable tissues for BVDV antigen detection using IHC in aborted goat fetuses.


pmid: 9029529
title: Detection and identification of ruminant and porcine pestiviruses by nested amplification of 5' untranslated cDNA regions
abstract: Based on published gene sequences of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) type I and classical swine fever virus (CSFV), genus- and species-specific primers were designed to detect and identify pestivirus cDNA sequences in a nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The PCR primers were validated using cDNA synthesized from 146 pestivirus isolates, comprising representatives of all four so far described genotypes (BVDV type I, BVDV type II, CSFV and border disease virus), as well as others of uncertain classification. PCR products of the predicted size were amplified from all viruses with the genus-specific primers. All 53 cattle isolates, including 5 typed antigenically as BVDV type II were amplified by the internal BVDV-specific primers, but not the CSFV-specific primers. The same result was found for other BVDV type I and II viruses isolated from sheep and pigs. Seventy-seven CSF viruses were amplified by their respective internal primers. Available information strongly indicate that 4 CSF viruses also amplified by the BVDV-specific primers had been contaminated with BVDV in cell cultures. Border disease viruses were mostly not detected by the BVDV-specific primers, but were detected weakly by the CSFV-specific primer pair. Using carrier RNA for extraction of viral RNA, the sensitivity of detection of the single and nested PCR was, respectively, 5 and 50 times higher than obtained with a cell culture assay. The RT-PCR also detected BVDV in all of 15 commercial batches of fetal calf serum examined, and verified three earlier diagnoses of CSFV by detecting specific gene sequences in 30 year old frozen archival organ samples.


pmid: 8592795
title: Diagnosis of naturally occurring bovine viral diarrhea virus infections in ruminants using monoclonal antibody-based immunohistochemistry
abstract: Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues from 50 spontaneous cases (39 bovine, nine ovine, two caprine) of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection diagnosed by virus isolation were retrospectively examined for BVDV antigen by immunohistochemistry using anti-BVDV gp-43 monoclonal antibody (Mab 15C5). The cases were separated into enteric disease syndrome, respiratory disease syndrome, and abortion/weak calf syndrome based upon clinical disease. The purposes of the study were to 1) compare routine virus isolation with immunohistochemistry in determining BVDV infection and 2) define tissue and cellular distribution of BVDV in various clinical manifestations of infection. In bovids, there was 100% concordance of virus isolation and immunohistochemistry using Mab 15C5 in cases of enteric disease (mucosal disease, acute and chronic diarrhea, neonatal diarrhea), respiratory disease, and abortion. When laboratory tests were restricted to gastrointestinal tissue and/or feces, virus isolation detected BVDV in only 65% of cattle, whereas immunohistochemistry detected BVDV antigen in 100% of cattle. Immunohistochemical detection of pestivirus was poor in cases of ovine abortion, ovine hairy shaker syndrome, and caprine abortion. The tissue distribution of BVDV antigen was widespread in individual cattle with all clinical forms of BVDV infection. Viral antigen accumulation was spatially correlated with tissue lesions (in the absence of other pathogens) only in the gastrointestinal tract, lymphoid tissue, lung, placenta, and eye. This study demonstrates the utility of immunohistochemistry using Mab 15C5 to diagnose BVDV infections in cattle with a broad spectrum of clinical disease.


pmid: 17574459
title: A scoring system for risk assessment of the introduction and spread of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in dairy herds in Northern Italy
abstract: To support a voluntary disease control program, this study aimed to develop an integrated scoring system for the risk assessment of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection in dairy herds in Northern Italy. Sixty-two dairy herds were classified according to their BVDV serological status. Farmers were interviewed using a questionnaire on potential BVDV risk factors. Scores were used to define risk levels for factors related to (1) BVDV introduction (through livestock trade, attendance of animals at shows/exhibitions and grazing common pasture), (2) within-herd spread of BVDV and (3) the results of initial serological testing. The calculated odds ratios were significant for all categories, except for livestock trade. The application of the screening test, the questionnaire and the related risk assessment showed this to be a practical approach to predicting BVDV herd status.


pmid: 3037768
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus-infected MDBK monolayer as antigen in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the measurement of antibodies in bovine sera
abstract: A specific ELISA for the detection of IgG antibodies against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has been developed and was compared with the seroneutralization (SN) titers for a total of 60 bovine serum samples. A BVDV-infected Madin-Darby Bovine Kidney (MDBK) cell monolayer served as test antigen. The following results were obtained: a coefficient of correlation (r) of 0.63 (P less than 0.01) between BVDV-ELISA and SN titer in BVDV-seroconverted animals and 0.71 for all sera, including that from BVDV vaccinated animals; a sensitivity of 92%, a specificity of 91%, a concordance of 92%; and a demonstration of a parallel increase in BVDV-ELISA and SN titers in animals with seroconversion. The BVDV-ELISA permits a more complete evaluation of the humoral immune response to BVDV.


pmid: 12093692
title: Screening of neonatal calves for persistent infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus by immunohistochemistry on skin biopsy samples
abstract: Detection and elimination of cattle that are persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is important for controlling the transmission of this virus. Colostrum-derived antibodies make the detection of persistently BVDV-infected neonatal calves cumbersome and expensive. The objective of this study was to evaluate the use of immunohistochemical staining of skin biopsy samples from neonatal calves as a method for the early detection of persistent BVDV infection. Three hundred thirty-two 1- to 4-week-old dairy calves were screened for BVDV as part of a routine control program. Formalin-fixed skin biopsy samples were stained for BVDV antigen by immunohistochemistry (IHC), and the results were compared to those of virus isolation (VI) from white blood cell preparations. Six calves were positive by both IHC and VI and remained positive for BVDV upon subsequent follow-up testing; thus, they were classified as persistently infected with BVDV. One calf was positive by VI but negative by IHC. On subsequent testing, the calf was negative by VI, suggesting that the initial VI result was due to an acute BVDV infection. One calf was positive by IHC but negative by VI. This calf remained negative by VI on follow-up testing. Immunohistochemical staining of skin biopsy samples is a reliable method for screening neonatal calves for persistent BVDV infection and would be a useful management tool as an aid for controlling and preventing BVDV infection.


pmid: 12090767
title: Failure to spread bovine virus diarrhoea virus infection from primarily infected calves despite concurrent infection with bovine coronavirus
abstract: Previous reports on the spread of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) from animals primarily infected with the agent are contradictory. In this study, the possibility of transmission of BVDV from calves simultaneously subjected to acute BVDV and bovine coronavirus (BCV) infection was investigated. Ten calves were inoculated intranasally with BVDV Type 1. Each of the 10 calves was then randomly allocated to one of two groups. In each group there were four additional calves, resulting in five infected and four susceptible calves per group. Virulent BCV was actively introduced in one of the groups by means of a transmitter calf. Two calves, susceptible to both BVDV and BCV, were kept in a separate group, as controls. All ten calves actively inoculated with BVDV became infected as shown by seroconversions, and six of them also shed the virus in nasal secretions. However, none of the other eight calves in the two groups (four in each) seroconverted to this agent. In contrast, it proved impossible to prevent the spread of BCV infection between the experimental groups and consequently all 20 study calves became infected with the virus. Following infection, BCV was detected in nasal secretions and in faeces of the calves and, after three weeks in the study, all had seroconverted to this virus. All calves, including the controls, showed at least one of the following clinical signs during days 3-15 after the trial started: fever (> or =40 degrees C), depressed general condition, diarrhoea, and cough. The study showed that BVDV primarily infected cattle, even when co-infected with an enteric and respiratory pathogen, are inefficient transmitters of BVDV. This finding supports the principle of the Scandinavian BVDV control programmes that elimination of BVDV infection from cattle populations can be achieved by identifying and removing persistently infected (PI) animals, i.e. that long-term circulation of the virus without the presence of PI animals is highly unlikely.


pmid: 12935809
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus antigen in foetal calf serum batches and consequences of such contamination for vaccine production
abstract: A protocol to test foetal calf serum (FCS) for contamination with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is described. Following this protocol, which combines cell culture methods and detection of pestivirus RNA, seven batches of FCS were tested. Infectious BVDV was detected in four of those batches. One of the remaining batches contained a relatively high number of non-infectious BVDV particles. A sample of this batch was formulated with aluminium hydroxide and aluminium phosphate as adjuvant into an experimental vaccine preparation. This product was injected twice into BVDV seronegative cattle with a 4 week interval. Blood samples taken 4 weeks after the second application were negative for BVDV specific antibodies. Our data stress that detection of BVDV RNA is not sufficient for a complete risk assessment on FCS. Discrimination between infectious and non-infectious BVDV is essential. This can only be achieved by cell culture methods.


pmid: 9355247
title: Application of recombinant bovine viral diarrhea virus proteins in the diagnosis of bovine viral diarrhea infection in cattle
abstract: The National Animal Disease Laboratory (NADL) vaccine strain of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) genes for gp48 and p80 were expressed in Escherichia coli. The BVDV-NADL gene for gp62 was integrated into a baculovirus genome for expression in Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf-9) insect ovarian cells. The antigenicity of baculovirus expressed BVDV protein was detected by anti-BVDV specific antibodies in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), indirect immunofluorescent assay (IFA) and radio-immunoprecipitation (RIP). The recombinant proteins isolated from bacteria showed antigenic properties when analyzed by ELISA and immunoblotting using BVDV antibodies. The recombinant proteins were then used in ELISA or IFA to detect BVDV infection by testing 54 independent bovine serum samples. The baculovirus-expressed BVDV protein was used as an ELISA and IFA antigen, and the bacteria-expressed proteins were used as ELISA antigens. BVDV-NADL-infected Madin-Darby bovine kidney (MDBK) cell monolayers served as a control antigen. Statistical analysis showed a high degree of correlation between the reactivity of recombinants and natural antigens in ELISA using bovine sera. The results of ELISA or IFA proved there is a high degree of correlation with the virus neutralization. In the comparative ELISA assays, the insect-cell-mediated expression revealed greater specificity and sensitivity than the bacterial expression or the natural BVDV antigens produced by cell cultures.


pmid: 12913361
title: Expression of the genomic form of the bovine viral diarrhea virus E2 ORF in a bovine herpesvirus-1 vector
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a ubiquitous pathogen of cattle with a world-wide distribution. Recently, the possibility of using recombinant virus vectors to immunize cattle against selected BVDV genes has gained widespread interest. Among the virus vectors tested, bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV1) provides many unique advantages. However, results of recent studies have raised the possibility that the codon usage pattern required for optimal expression in a BHV1-infected cell may be incompatible with the codon usage pattern of BVDV. If true, use of BHV1 to express BVDV proteins would require construction of synthetic BVDV genes that have been modified to resemble the codon pattern of BHV1. To explore this possibility, we constructed a BHV1 recombinant containing the genomic form of the BVDV (NADL) E2 ORF and compared expression of the E2 protein with that of the endogenous BHV1 gD protein. We observed that E2 was expressed at a significant rate compared to that of the gD protein. We conclude that codon usage problems are unlikely to constitute a serious problem for expression of BVDV proteins in BHV1 vectors.


pmid: 7648532
title: The prevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in a population of feedlot calves in western Canada
abstract: The prevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection was examined in a population of 5129 recently weaned steer calves entering a large feedlot in central Saskatchewan from September to December 1991. Serum samples were collected within 24 h of arrival at the feedlot from every fifth calf processed and again 96 d postarrival. A microtiter virus isolation test was used to determine the prevalence of calves viremic with BVDV on entry to the feedlot. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) which detects antibody against glycoprotein 53 of the BVDV was used on paired sera to determine the seroconversion risk during the first 96 d in the feedlot. A virus neutralization (VN) test for BVDV was conducted on a sub-sample of paired sera to measure agreement in determination of seroconversion risk with the ELISA. A polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test which detects BVDV was used to determine if cattle were acutely viremic when treated for disease. The estimated prevalence of persistently infected calves in this population was < 0.1%. The seroconversion risk for BVDV was 27% (236/864) according to the ELISA and it varied from 0 to 63% among the 20 pens sampled. According to the VN test, the seroconversion risk for BVDV was 40% (132/327) and it varied from 0 to 100% among the 11 pens tested. The agreement between the ELISA and VN tests in seroconversion risk to BVDV was very poor (kappa = 0.15 +/- 0.039 SE). The prevalence of acute viremia in calves treated at the feedlot hospital was low at 4% (6/149).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


pmid: 9576337
title: Detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus in the ovaries of cattle acutely infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is recognized worldwide as a major cause of economic loss in cattle. Infection with BVDV can result in several clinical outcomes. However, the reproductive consequences may be the most important. Infertility, early embryonic death, abortion, and congenital anomalies have all been reported following acute infection with BVDV. The cause of infertility following acute BVDV infection is not known. BVDV has been isolated from the bovine ovary and has been associated with chronic oophoritis. The purpose of this study was to identify the ovarian cell types infected with BVDV following acute infection. Twelve heifers were acutely infected with noncytopathic BVDV, and ovariectomies were performed between 4 and 60 days postinfection. BVDV was isolated on days 6 and 8 postinfection. Viral antigen was detected in macrophage-like cells and stromal cells in the ovarian cortex and oophoritis was evident from 6 to 60 days postinfection. These findings indicate that acute infection with BVDV may result in changes in ovarian function that could lead to reduced fertility.


pmid: 9576339
title: Prevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus genotypes and antibody against those viral genotypes in fetal bovine serum
abstract: One thousand lots of pooled fetal bovine serum (FBS) were tested for contamination with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and/or for contamination with neutralizing antibody against BVDV. Noncytopathic or cytopathic BVDV was isolated from 203 lots of FBS. Analysis of the viral isolates identified 115 type 1 and 65 type 2 BVDV isolates. An additional 23 virus isolates were mixtures of > or = 2 BVDV isolates and were not classified to viral genotype. Further characterization of the type 1 viruses identified 51 subgenotype 1a and 64 subgenotype 1b BVDV isolates. Viral neutralizing antibody was detected in 113 lots of FBS. Differential viral neutralization indicated that type 1 BVDV induced the antibody detected in 48 lots of FBS and type 2 BVDV induced the antibody detected in 16 lots of FBS.


pmid: 10673059
title: Influence of new infection with bovine virus diarrhoea virus on udder health in Norwegian dairy cows
abstract: A retrospective longitudinal study was conducted to examine whether the exposure of dairy herds to bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) affected udder health. All Norwegian dairy herds that had experienced a marked increase in the BVDV antibody titres in bulk milk (from a level corresponding to an optical density (OD) <0.25 to >0.55, as determined by an indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay) between two nation-wide herd screening examinations carried out late in 1992 and 1993, respectively, were considered to have been exposed to BVDV during the period between the examinations. The reference group included all dairy herds in which the bulk milk was BVDV antibody-negative or had only very low titres of BVDV antibodies (OD <0.25) each year from 1992 to 1995. The annual incidence rate of clinical mastitis, the bulk-milk somatic-cell count, and the annual rate of culling because of mastitis in the herds, were compared in the year of BVDV exposure (1993) as well as in a period prior to exposure (from 1988 to 1992) and two years following the year of exposure. In herds exposed to BVDV, there was a 7% increase in the incidence rate of clinical mastitis in the year of exposure, as compared with the nonexposed herds. No significant changes attributable to BVDV exposure were observed in the bulk-milk somatic-cell count or in the rate of culling because of mastitis.


pmid: 25394207
title: A genome-wide association study for the incidence of persistent bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in cattle
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) comprise a diverse group of viruses that cause disease in cattle. BVDV may establish both transient and persistent infections depending on the developmental stage of the animal at exposure. The objective was to determine whether genomic regions harboring single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) could be associated with the presence or absence of persistent BVDV infection. A genome-wide association approach based on 777,000 SNP markers was used. Samples of animals identified as positive (n = 1200) or negative (n = 1200) for the presence of BVDV in skin samples (n = 1200) were used. DNA samples were combined in 24 pools (100 animals per pool). One SNP, significant at the 5 percent genome-wide level (P = 9.41 × 10(-8) ), was detected on chromosome 14, located at position 80 675 176 bp. Fifteen SNPs, residing on chromosomes 1, 2, 6, 8, 10, 15 and 18, were moderately associated (P < 1 × 10(-5) ) with persistent BVDV infection. Results show that genes harboring or neighboring significant SNPs are involved in leucopenia, signal transduction, RNA splicing and DNA methylation processes.


pmid: 18214163
title: Effect of dexamethasone administration on bulls with a localized testicular infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The objective of this research was to evaluate reactivation of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) following dexamethasone treatment in 4 bulls that had previously been inoculated with BVDV, 3 of which had been demonstrated to have a localized testicular infection. Bulls were housed in an isolated pasture with in-contact steers. Beginning on day 0 of this study, all bulls received a daily dose of 0.1 mg/kg body weight (BW) of dexamethasone intravenously for 5 consecutive days. Blood was collected from the in-contact steers and semen, blood, and cerebrospinal fluid were collected from the bulls during and following dexamethasone treatment. Samples were assayed for BVDV using virus isolation and reverse transcription-nested polymerase chain reaction (RT-nPCR). Serum was assayed for antibody using standard virus isolation. Virus was not isolated from blood, cerebrospinal fluid, or semen from any of the 4 bulls during the study period. One of the bulls was positive for BVDV in semen by RT-nPCR throughout the study period. The BVDV was not recovered from any in-contact control steers during the 28-day study period, nor did any of the in-contact control steers seroconvert to BVDV. Raw semen from 1 bull that was RT-nPCR positive was intravenously inoculated into 7 seronegative steers based upon the Cornell Semen Test. The BVDV could not be recovered from the steers and none of them seroconverted to BVDV. The results indicated that reactivation of BVDV in bulls with a localized testicular infection is unlikely; however, further research is necessary to determine the full potential for BVDV transmission from bulls with a localized testicular infection.


pmid: 9553717
title: A monoclonal antibody-based immunoperoxidase monolayer (micro-isolation) assay for detection of type 1 and type 2 bovine viral diarrhea viruses
abstract: A monoclonal antibody (mAb)-based immunoperoxidase monolayer assay (IPMA) for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was developed and compared with an existing bovine polyclonal antibody (pAb)-based IPMA. A pool of 5 mAbs, 4 mAbs produced to a type 1 BVDV and 1 mAb produced to a type 2 BVDV, was utilized in the mAb-IPMA. The mAbs were chosen for inclusion in the pool because of their broad cross-reactivities with type 1 and/or type 2 BVDV, their apparent avidities for antigen, their reactivity to different BVDV proteins, and their lack of competition for binding sites or their binding to unusual BVDV isolates. The mAb-IPMA outperformed the pAb-IPMA in staining, ease of reading test results, and relative sensitivity with a panel of known BVDV positive and negative sera. The relative sensitivities of the mAb-IPMA and pAb-IPMA were 100% and 93.5%, respectively, for 62 positive samples including several that were known to contain type 2 BVDV. With retesting, the pAb-IPMA gave a similar level of sensitivity as that of the mAb-IPMA. Both tests gave a specificity of 100% for 40 negative serum samples obtained from a BVDV-free herd.


pmid: 25153459
title: Both foot-and-mouth disease virus and bovine viral diarrhea virus replication are inhibited by Mx1 protein originated from porcine
abstract: Mx1 protein is I type interferons (IFNs)-induced 76-kDa guanosine triphosphatases (GTPases) that belong to the dynamin superfamily of large GTPases. Mx1 proteins have attracted attention because some display antiviral activity against pathogenic RNA and DNA viruses. Meanwhile, Mx1 gene generally exists in organisms or cells of mammalian, fish and chicken. Blocking a wide range of RNA virus replication by inhibiting nuclear viral mRNA synthesis is a unique property of Mx1 protein. In order to investigate a novel prevention measure against foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), which frequently break out in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region of China, we investigated the effects of porcine Mx1 protein on FMDV and BVDV replication by measuring viral reverse transcriptase activity at various time intervals. In our study, Mx1 protein was overexpressed in BHK-21 and MDBK cells mediated by lentivirus prior to infect with FMDV and BVDV. FMDV and BVDV replication levels were monitored by quantitative real-Time PCR. The results showed porcine Mx1 overexpression significantly inhibited both FMDV and BVDV replication within 12 and 36 hours post-infection (pi). The finding may provide a new therapeutic approach for preventing from FDMV and BVDV infection.


pmid: 10409414
title: Genetic clustering of bovine viral diarrhoea viruses in cattle farms: genetic identification and analysis of viruses directly from cattle sera
abstract: The herd-specific genetic clustering of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was studied by phylogenetic analysis of 42 sera collected between 1995-97 from persistently infected cattle on 16 farms in Sweden. The viruses were typed by sequencing a part of the 5' untranslated region of the genome, which had been amplified directly from serum by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. All of the viruses were of BVDV I, either BVDV Ia (NADL-like) or BVDV Ib (Osloss-like) genotypes. No relationship was observed between the geographic region of origin and the character of clinical signs and the typing of the BVDV isolates. However, the phylogenetic analysis revealed a strict herd-specific genetic clustering of the virus. In 15 of the 16 herds, animals were infected with a single strain of BVDV characteristic for that herd. Direct nucleotide sequence analysis from serum can therefore be used as a tool for molecular epizootiology of BVDV infections.


pmid: 10726311
title: Obtaining immunologically active bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) proteins for enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)
abstract: We report here the preparation of BVDV antigen (Ag) to obtain adequate quantities of pure active viral proteins from Madin Darby Bovine kidney (MDBK) cell culture infected with BVDV cytophatic Oregon C24V strain. SDS-PAGE, Immunodot, ECL-Western blot and ELISA showed the best specificity and activity of BVDV Ag obtained from infected cells only by mild experimental conditions. BVDV Ag preparations showed the peculiar BVDV sensitivity to proteases, nonionic surfactants and tend for protein degradation and irreversible loss of conformational antigenic determinants with subsequent inability to detect antibodies against viral Ag in hyperimmune sera. The widest panel of immunologically active and specific polypeptides, that elicit Ab production in hyperimmune sera, was obtained by ultrasonication and subsequent purification on 20%-50% sucrose cushion. We observed that BVDV tend to remain in the infected cells, to associate with components of serum and cellular origin--this is of crucial importance towards the specificity of ELISA. BVDV antigenic properties are determined by the labile conformational antigenic epitopes.


pmid: 11136763
title: Pathogenesis of primary respiratory disease induced by isolates from a new genetic cluster of bovine viral diarrhea virus type I
abstract: The pathogenesis of infection induced by cytopathogenic isolates from the newly identified genetic cluster Id of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type I was studied in two experimental infections of previously seronegative, immunocompetent calves. Experiment 1 focused on the evaluation of clinical patterns, viremia, and serological responses. All infected calves in this experiment developed respiratory symptoms and seroconverted to BVDV positivity. Contact calves also contracted a respiratory tract infection following exposure to infected animals. Viremia was demonstrated between postinfection days 2 and 17, and the virus was detected in organ specimens of all but one each of the infected and contact calves. In experiment 2, the distribution of BVDV in various tissues of calves euthanized at defined days postinfection was studied. In two of these calves recurrent shedding of BVDV in nasal secretions was shown. BVDV was detected in various tissues of all infected calves throughout the experiment and also following seroconversion and the clearance of BVDV from the circulatory system. Despite the widespread distribution of the virus in various organs, significant tissue damage was found mainly in respiratory tract and lymphoid tissues. These experiments revealed that viruses from cluster Id of BVDV are able to induce primary respiratory disease in previously seronegative, immunocompetent calves. Contact transmission and virus recurrence, contrary to observations from acute experimental infections with noncytopathogenic BVDV, are likely to reflect differences in biological features of these cytopathogenic isolates. Virus shedding and its presence in tissues following peripheral clearance and in the presence of antibodies may have implications in the diagnosis, pathogenesis, and epidemiology of BVDV-induced syndromes in cattle.


pmid: 15017036
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus type 2-induced meningoencephalitis in a heifer
abstract: The brain from a 15-month-old, black female Angus, with a 48-hour history of central nervous system disease, was submitted to the Oklahoma Animal Disease Diagnostic Laboratory. Microscopic findings consisted of acute, multifocal meningoencephalitis, with neuronal degeneration and necrosis and gliosis. Viral isolation yielded noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Virus genotyping classified the virus as BVDV type 2. Immunohistochemical labeling for BVDV antigens with BVD MAb 3.12F1 clone was prominent in the cytoplasm of neurons, glial cells, ependymal epithelium, perivascular macrophages and spindle cells, smooth muscle cells, and intravascular monocytes of the cerebrum and brain stem. Laboratory results support that tissue alterations occurred as a result of BVDV type 2 infection. In the absence of other clinical signs related to BVDV infection and using the microscopic and laboratory evidence presented, we propose that the BVDV type 2 isolated from this case may represent a neurovirulent strain of the virus. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of brain lesions and neuronal viral antigen localization in BVDV genotype 2 viral infection, acquired either congenitally or postnatally.


pmid: 10028172
title: Foetal cross-protection experiments between type 1 and type 2 bovine viral diarrhoea virus in pregnant ewes
abstract: A flock of 82 non-pregnant ewes was split into three immunisation groups and given an intranasal dose of either cell culture medium, or a type 1 or a type 2 bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV-1 or BVDV-2). Two months later the flock was reconstituted and after a further three weeks, the ewes were bred to pestivirus negative rams after synchronisation of oestrus using progesterone sponges. Fifty-five ewes were segregated into three challenge groups, each of which comprised ewes from different immunisation groups. At 7 weeks gestation, one challenge group was given an intranasal dose of cell culture medium, whilst the other two were given intranasal doses of either BVDV-1 or BVDV-2, using the same inocula as for the immunisations. Three weeks later, the ewes were killed and their foetuses tested for the presence of BVDV-1 and BVDV-2. The results showed that immunisation of six ewes without subsequent challenge did not lead to infection of any of their 11 foetuses. Challenge with BVDV-1 or BVDV-2 in the absence of immunisation lead to 15 out of 15 or 11 out of 14 foetuses becoming infected, respectively. Immunisation with the homologous virus to that used for challenge resulted in complete protection of 32 foetuses from 15 ewes. Heterologous protection was one way. All 12 foetuses from ewes immunised with BVDV-1 were protected from challenge with BVDV-2, whereas 18 foetuses from ewes immunised with BVDV-2 were all infected after challenge with BVDV-1. This provides evidence that a recent exposure to infection with one pestivirus does not necessarily induce foetal protection against another. The one-way result suggests that factors other than antigenic differences are involved in cross-protection.


pmid: 13677324
title: Assessment of the clinical and virological protection provided by a commercial inactivated bovine viral diarrhoea virus genotype 1 vaccine against a BVDV genotype 2 challenge
abstract: A new genotype of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), designated BVDV-2, has emerged in the last decade and in recent years the prevalence of BVDV-2 strains has increased. A vaccination-challenge study was carried out to determine the cross-protective efficacy of a commercial inactivated vaccine containing a BVDV-1 strain. A group of five BVDV-free calves was vaccinated twice and a second group of five calves served as negative controls. Two months after the first vaccination, all the calves were challenged intranasally with BVDV-2 strain BVD890. The clinical signs of disease, the changes in haematological variables and the level of viraemia were significantly less in the vaccinated group.


pmid: 10421093
title: Detection of viral antigen in placenta and fetus of cattle acutely infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The reproductive organs and fetuses of seven Norwegian Red heifers were investigated for the presence of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) antigen during the time of initial transplacental transmission of the virus. The heifers were inoculated with a noncytopathogenic BVDV at day 85/86 of gestation and were slaughtered at day 7, 10, 14, 18, or 22 postinoculation (pi). Cryostat sections of uterus, ovaries, placentomes, intercotyledonary fetal membranes, and fetal organs were examined using immunohistochemical techniques. A double immunofluorescence technique was used to identify cells that showed staining with antibodies against the leukocyte common antigen CD45 or the intermediate filament vimentin and BVDV antigens. The earliest stage of infection at which BVDV antigen could be detected in the fetuses was 14 days pi. At this stage, BVDV antigen was detected in cells of mesenchymal origin in the lungs and in large cells that morphologically resembled immature megakaryocytes in the liver. In the intercotyledonary fetal membranes and in the placentomes, BVDV antigen was not detected until 18 and 22 days pi, respectively. BVDV antigen was not detected in maternal tissue from any of the heifers. The present results indicate that fetal infection with BVDV can take place without preceding or simultaneous high concentrations of BVDV in uterus or placenta of acutely infected heifers.


pmid: 7686708
title: An immunoplaque assay distinguishing between cytopathogenic and noncytopathogenic biotypes of bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Cytopathogenic (cp) and noncytopathogenic (ncp) biotypes of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) could be clearly distinguished by hollow plaques with peripheral immunostaining in infected fetal calf kidney (FCK) monolayers cultures or the appearance of homogenously stained immunoplaques (IPs), respectively. Of 70 BVDV isolates formerly classified as cytopathogenic according to microscopic observations in FCK cell cultures, 46 produced IPs of both types while the remaining 24 isolates induced only the IP type characteristic of the ncp BVDV biotype. The same was true for 24 additional isolates classified by light microscopy as ncp after ten blind passages in FCK cell cultures. Thus it appeared that in 1/3 of the cases changes in FCK cell cultures had been formerly misinterpreted as BVDV induced cytopathic effects (CPE). Of the 46 isolates which produced both ncp and cp immunoplaques 5 BVDV isolates were selected and successfully subjected to cloning. Clones of the cp biotype were developed by picking native plaques from unfixed FCK cell monolayers. In case of ncp IP, cloning was attempted by picking randomly in the spaces between visible native plaques. Pairs of clones from each of the field isolates proved to consist of pure plaque populations of cp BVDV and ncp BVDV biotypes, respectively, at the dilution of viral suspension which allowed the classification of a single IP according to morphology. Analysis of the clones using 15 monoclonal antibodies against the major viral glycoprotein revealed far-reaching antigenic homogeneity for each pair with only few but distinct exceptions.


pmid: 2838958
title: Proteins encoded by bovine viral diarrhea virus: the genomic organization of a pestivirus
abstract: The genome of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) contains a single large open reading frame capable of encoding 449 kDa of protein. Short segments from along the length of the molecularly cloned BVDV genome were engineered so as to be expressed as bacterial fusion polypeptides in Escherichia coli. These BVDV analog fusion proteins were used as immunogens to generate a panel of sequence-specific antisera. These antiserum reagents were in turn employed in immunoprecipitation analyses to identify the authentic BVDV protein to which they were directed. The results allowed for the identification and positioning along the genome of BVDV gene products accounting for approximately 83% of the coding capacity of the virus. A preliminary map of the genetic organization of BVDV is presented and discussed.


pmid: 20074985
title: Antibody responses to inactivated vaccines and natural infection in cattle using bovine viral diarrhoea virus ELISA kits: assessment of potential to differentiate infected and vaccinated animals
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is one of the most common and economically important viral infections of cattle. As vaccination is common in most European countries, differentiation between infected and vaccinated animals is one of the key challenges facing BVDV eradication campaigns. This study was designed to compare the ability of commercial ELISA kits to differentiate antibodies generated following vaccination with four different commercial inactivated BVDV vaccines from antibodies generated following challenge with virulent BVDV. Although none of the tested vaccine-ELISA combinations was able to differentiate an infected from a vaccinated animal (DIVA) at the individual animal level, p80 blocking ELISAs, in combination with inactivated BVDV vaccines, may have some value under certain circumstances at herd level. In most cases, antibody responses to BVDV vaccines cannot be clearly distinguished from responses seen in the early phase of natural infection. No commercial BVD vaccine showed true marker qualities for DIVA using p80 blocking ELISAs.


pmid: 22654141
title: Seroprevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus neutralizing antibodies in finisher hogs in Ontario swine herds and targeted diagnostic testing of 2 suspect herds
abstract: A pilot study was initiated to determine the seroprevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) neutralizing antibodies in finisher hogs in Ontario swine herds, including 2 swine herds with clinical syndromes suspicious of BVDV. No herds were positive for BVDV antibodies by virus neutralization. The 2 swine herds with clinical disease suggestive of pestivirus infection were also negative for antibodies to BVDV in indirect fluorescent antibody assays. Prevalence of BVDV in Ontario swine farms is negligible.


pmid: 8993781
title: Losses over a 2-year period associated with fetal infection with the bovine viral diarrhea virus in a beef cow-calf herd in Saskatchewan
abstract: In 1992, significant calf losses occurred between birth and weaning in a 650-cow Saskatchewan beef herd. These losses occurred subsequent to ill-thrift and disease, and every calf necropsied was found to be persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). The objectives of this study were to describe the losses associated with fetal infection with BVDV in this herd and to determine why they occurred. For investigative purposes, blood samples were collected from the entire cow herd and the surviving calves at pregnancy testing in 1992, and tested by virus isolation for BVDV. Between 51 and 71 persistently infected calves were born in 1992. Bovine viral diarrhea virus was only isolated from calves. The only confirmed fetal infections with BVDV were recorded as the birth of persistently infected calves. However, abortions, reduced pregnancy rates, and delayed calvings were also recorded in the cow herd and may have been the result of fetal infections. The herd was monitored again in 1993. Fetal infections with BVDV were recorded as the birth of stunted, deformed, and persistently infected calves. The greatest losses due to fetal infection with BVDV in the 2 years of this study occurred in cows that were 3-years-old at calving (second calves). Bovine viral diarrhea virus appears to have remained endemic in this herd by transmission from persistently infected calves on young 3- and 4-year-old cows to naive calved 2-year-old cows that were mingled with them annually for rebreeding. Significant numbers of the 2-year-old cows remained naive to BVDV, because they were segregated from persistently infected calves at weaning, preventing cross-infection with BVDV.


pmid: 10574525
title: Viremia and virus shedding in elk infected with type 1 and virulent type 2 bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: In order to determine whether elk (Cervus elaphus) could be infected with and shed bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and to determine whether BVDV could cause disease in elk, two groups of five yearling elk each and two control cattle were experimentally inoculated intranasally with type 1 Singer strain or a virulent type 2 isolate of BVDV, strain 24515. Virulence of the type 2 isolate was confirmed by inoculation of a control bovine cow which developed diarrhea, dehydration, severe thrombocytopenia, hemorrhages, and enteritis with intestinal necrosis. None of the elk inoculated with type 1 or type 2 BVDV developed clinical signs of illness. However, all elk became infected as demonstrated by viremia, nasal shedding, and/or seroconversion. One uninoculated, in-contact elk contracted type 1 BVDV and seroconverted. Thus, although BVDV does not appear capable of producing disease in nonpregnant elk, the species is susceptible to infection and can shed and transmit BVDV.


pmid: 10590128
title: Correlation between point mutations in NS2 and the viability and cytopathogenicity of Bovine viral diarrhea virus strain Oregon analyzed with an infectious cDNA clone
abstract: Cytopathogenicity of Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is correlated with expression of the nonstructural protein NS3, which can be generated by processing of a fusion protein termed NS2-3. For the cytopathogenic (cp) BVDV strain Oregon, NS2-3 processing is based on a set of point mutations within NS2. To analyze the correlation between NS2-3 cleavage and cytopathogenicity, a full-length cDNA clone composed of cDNA from BVDV Oregon and the utmost 5'- and 3'-terminal sequences of a published infectious BVDV clone was established. After transfection of RNA transcribed from this cDNA clone, infectious virus with similar growth characteristics to wild-type BVDV Oregon could be recovered that also exhibited a cytopathic effect. Based on this cDNA construct and published cp and noncp infectious clones, chimeric full-length cDNA clones were constructed. Analysis of the recovered viruses demonstrated that the presence of the NS2 gene of BVDV Oregon in a chimeric construct is sufficient for NS2-3 processing and a cp phenotype. Since previous studies had revealed that the amino acid serine at position 1555 of BVDV Oregon plays an important role in efficient NS2-3 cleavage, mutants of BVDV Oregon with different amino acids at this position were constructed. Some of these mutants showed NS2-3 cleavage efficiencies in the range of the wild-type sequence and allowed the recovery of viruses that behaved similarly to wild-type virus with regard to growth characteristics and cytopathogenicity. In contrast, other mutants with considerably reduced NS2-3 cleavage efficiencies propagated much more slowly and reverted to viruses expressing polyproteins with sequences allowing efficient NS2-3 cleavage. These viruses apparently induced cytopathic effects only after reversion.


pmid: 11021424
title: Diagnosis of persistent bovine viral diarrhea virus infection by immunohistochemical staining of formalin-fixed skin biopsy specimens
abstract: The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of immunohistochemical (IHC) staining for diagnosis of persistent bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection using formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded skin biopsy specimens. Skin from 41 of 42 calves shown to be persistently infected (PI) with BVDV by repeated virus isolation more than 3 weeks apart were immunohistochemically positive for BVDV antigen. Positive IHC staining was most pronounced in the keratinocytes and in hair follicle epithelium, hair matrix cells of the hair bulb, and the dermal papilla. All of the skin sections from 10 calves experimentally infected postnatally with BVDV (10(5) median tissue culture infective doses [TCID50]) and biopsied on days 0, 5, 7, and 9 postinfection were negative for viral antigen. Ten calves from a second group experimentally infected with a higher dose of BVDV (10(8) TCID50) were biopsied when viremic between 10 and 14 days postinfection and 4 calves exhibited positive IHC staining for BVDV; however, staining in these skin biopsies was confined to small foci in the nonfollicular epidermis and follicular ostia. This staining was distinct from that observed in skin obtained from PI cattle. Skin biopsy represents an effective method for identifying animals PI with BVDV.


pmid: 8388020
title: Presence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in lymphoid cell populations of persistently infected cattle
abstract: Cattle infected in utero with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) often develop a lifelong persistent infection (PI). During this PI, BVDV infects many cell types including peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMNC). To define the lymphoid cell populations in which BVDV persists PBMNC subpopulations were separated using monoclonal antibodies to cell surface markers. Separated cells were analysed by a sensitive PCR assay for BVDV, in conjunction with flow cytometry to identify antigen-containing cells and with viral infectivity assays. The results indicate that BVDV establishes a productive PI in monocytes and T cells bearing the marker BoCD4, BoCD8 or gamma-delta T cell receptor. BVDV was not detected in B cells as a productive nor a latent infection.


pmid: 8659345
title: Bovine virus diarrhoea virus in semen from acutely infected bulls
abstract: The risk of spreading bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) from acutely infected animals to susceptible animals was investigated. Ten bulls from a herd with no previous history of BVDV were used. The bulls were demonstrated free from BVDV and such antibodies. Six of the bulls were inoculated intravenously with cytopathogenic virus, and 4 bulls were used as controls. Semen samples were collected during a period of 66 days after inoculation. The samples were examined for BVDV, and spermatological parameters were registered. Testes and epididymides were examined histologically post mortem. All inoculated bulls exhibited elevated temperatures between days 4 and 8 after inoculation, and BVDV antibodies were found in all of them on day 22. The control animals remained antibody negative. Non-cytopathogenic BVDV was isolated from seminal plasma from 2 bulls on day 7 after inoculation. Semen volume was significantly reduced from week 6 after inoculation. Percent abnormal sperm cells decreased in the same period. No significant differences were observed in sperm density or percentage of live spermatozoa. No pathological changes were found in the testes or epididymides.


pmid: 9637289
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus replication in bovine follicular epithelial cells derived from persistently infected heifers
abstract: Bovine follicle fluid and oocytes surrounded by follicular epithelial (FE) cells were collected from ovaries of two heifers persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). BVDV was present in the follicle fluid at a higher titer than in serum. The oocytes were matured in vitro under culture conditions of 39 degrees C in humidified air containing 5% CO2. In vitro fertilization was performed after 24 hr in culture (the day of insemination was defined as day 1), and culture was continued through day 10. BVDV was present in the culture medium at titers of 10(2.25) to 10(3.25) TC(I)D50/0.1 ml. The virus was also detected in FE cells collected on day 10. Viral antigen was demonstrated in the cytoplasm of FE cells by the indirect immunofluorescence technique. However, no BVDV was detected in the embryos on day 10. These findings suggested that the oocytes or embryos were unlikely to be infected with BVDV, but that the FE cells were infected with BVDV and supported virus replication in cattle persistently infected with BVDV.


pmid: 1655059
title: Methods for detection and frequency of contamination of fetal calf serum with bovine viral diarrhea virus and antibodies against bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Methods used by the National Animal Disease Center to test fetal calf serum for contamination with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and antibodies against BVDV are described. Using those methods, virus was isolated from 332 of 1,608 (20.6%) lots of raw fetal calf serum obtained specifically for the Center and 93 of 190 (49%) lots of commercially available fetal calf serum. Virus neutralization and immunoperoxidase staining tests were used to detect antibodies against BVDV in 224 of the 1,608 (13.9%) lots of raw fetal calf serum. Both BVDV and antibodies against BVDV were detected in 50 lots of raw serum. The molecular specificity of antibodies against BVDV was determined by radioimmunoprecipitation. Lots of fetal calf serum that contained BVDV-specific antibodies that did not neutralize virus were identified.


pmid: 9814762
title: cis-acting RNA elements required for replication of bovine viral diarrhea virus-hepatitis C virus 5' nontranslated region chimeras
abstract: Pestiviruses, such as bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), share many similarities with hepatitis C virus (HCV) yet are more amenable to virologic and genetic analysis. For both BVDV and HCV, translation is initiated via an internal ribosome entry site (IRES). Besides IRES function, the viral 5' nontranslated regions (NTRs) may also contain cis-acting RNA elements important for viral replication. A series of chimeric RNAs were used to examine the function of the BVDV 5' NTR. Our results show that: (1) the HCV and the encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) IRES element can functionally replace that of BVDV; (2) two 5' terminal hairpins in BVDV genomic RNA are important for efficient replication; (3) replacement of the entire BVDV 5' NTR with those of HCV or EMCV leads to severely impaired replication; (4) such replacement chimeras are unstable and efficiently replicating pseudorevertants arise; (5) pseudorevertant mutations involve deletion of 5' sequences and/or acquisition of novel 5' sequences such that the 5' terminal 3-4 bases of BVDV genome RNA are restored. Besides providing new insight into functional elements in the BVDV 5' NTR, these chimeras may prove useful as pestivirus vaccines and for screening and evaluation of anti-HCV IRES antivirals.


pmid: 23644292
title: Investigation of border disease and bovine virus diarrhoea in sheep from 76 mixed cattle and sheep farms in eastern Switzerland
abstract: The purpose of this study was to examine the occurrence of sheep persistently infected with Border disease virus (BDV) on 76 mixed cattle and sheep farms and whether seroconversion to BDV infection occurred in cattle of these farms. Seroprevalence of BDV and bovine viral disease virus (BVDV) infection in sheep was also investigated. Quantitative RT-PCR for pestivirus detection and an ELISA to detect pestivirus antibodies were used in 2'384 and 2'291 ovine blood samples, respectively. Another 27 seropositive sheep from ten flocks underwent serum neutralization testing to differentiate between BDV and BVDV antibodies. A BDV titre that was at least four times higher than the BVDV titre was interpreted as the result of BDV infection. Titres against BVDV were interpreted in an analogous fashion. All examined sheep were pestivirus-negative, 310 sheep were seropositive, 119 had an indeterminate titre and 1'862 were seronegative. The flock seroprevalence ranged from 0.0 to 73.9 %. Three of the 27 flocks that underwent serum neutralization testing were interpreted as BDV-infected because of 6 sheep with higher BDV titres, and 6 flocks were interpreted as BVDV-infected because of 14 sheep with higher BVDV titres.


pmid: 23644292
title: Investigation of border disease and bovine virus diarrhoea in sheep from 76 mixed cattle and sheep farms in eastern Switzerland
abstract: The purpose of this study was to examine the occurrence of sheep persistently infected with Border disease virus (BDV) on 76 mixed cattle and sheep farms and whether seroconversion to BDV infection occurred in cattle of these farms. Seroprevalence of BDV and bovine viral disease virus (BVDV) infection in sheep was also investigated. Quantitative RT-PCR for pestivirus detection and an ELISA to detect pestivirus antibodies were used in 2'384 and 2'291 ovine blood samples, respectively. Another 27 seropositive sheep from ten flocks underwent serum neutralization testing to differentiate between BDV and BVDV antibodies. A BDV titre that was at least four times higher than the BVDV titre was interpreted as the result of BDV infection. Titres against BVDV were interpreted in an analogous fashion. All examined sheep were pestivirus-negative, 310 sheep were seropositive, 119 had an indeterminate titre and 1'862 were seronegative. The flock seroprevalence ranged from 0.0 to 73.9 %. Three of the 27 flocks that underwent serum neutralization testing were interpreted as BDV-infected because of 6 sheep with higher BDV titres, and 6 flocks were interpreted as BVDV-infected because of 14 sheep with higher BVDV titres.


pmid: 8143258
title: Monoclonal antibodies to bovine viral diarrhea virus: cross-reactivities to field isolates and hog cholera virus strains
abstract: Monoclonal antibodies to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were examined for binding with a large number of North American BVDV isolates and eight strains of the serologically related pestivirus, hog cholera virus (HCV). No single BVDV monoclonal antibody reacted with all BVDV isolates. The most cross-reactive monoclonal antibody was an anti-p80/p125 antibody which showed a positive reaction with 173 of 180 (96%) North American isolates. From a fewer number of isolates tested, one anti-gp53 monoclonal antibody also showed a high cross-reactivity (94%). All BVDV isolates showed a positive reaction with at least one of the seven monoclonal antibodies in the panel. Thus, the results indicated that a pool of these monoclonal antibodies may be used in place of polyclonal antisera for the detection of BVDV contamination of cell lines or for virus isolation. For HCV, all three anti-p80/p125 monoclonal antibodies reacted positively with all eight virus strains. In contrast, none of the anti-gp53 monoclonal antibodies were reactive to HCV strains. Thus, the anti-gp53 monoclonal antibodies may be useful for distinguishing between usually innocuous BVDV infections and the highly significant HCV infections in swine for foreign animal disease surveillance.


pmid: 12152809
title: Evaluation of the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction/probe test of serum samples and immunohistochemistry of skin sections for detection of acute bovine viral diarrhea infections
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) cause both acute and persistent infections. While diagnostic tests have been designed to detect animals persistently infected (PI) with BVDV, the reliability of these tests in detecting acute BVDV infections is not known. It is also possible that acute BVDV infections may be confused with persistent infections in surveys for PI animals. In this study, 2 tests presently in use in diagnostic laboratories to test for PI animals, polymerase chain reaction amplification followed by probe hybridization (RT-PCR/probe) of serum samples and immunohistochemical detection of viral antigen in skin biopsies (IHC), were evaluated for their ability to detect acute BVDV infections. Sixteen colostrum-deprived, BVDV-free, and BVDV-antibody-free calves were infected with 6 different BVDV strains. Clinical signs, seroconversion, and virus isolation indicated that inoculated animals did replicate virus. Virus could be detected in 19% (3/16) of acutely infected animals by the RT-PCR/probe technique. No acutely infected animals were positive by IHC.


pmid: 10189190
title: The effect of different bovine viral diarrhea virus genotypes and biotypes on the metabolic activity and activation status of bovine peripheral blood mononuclear cells
abstract: The effects of cytopathic (cp) and non-cytopathic (ncp) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) on the cellular metabolic activity and activation status of bovine peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were investigated. Cellular DNA and protein synthesis was determined by [3H]thymidine and [3H]valine incorporation, respectively, in phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-stimulated PBMC. All cp strains and most ncp BVDV strains significantly inhibited DNA synthesis in PHA-stimulated PBMC; however, only cp BVDV strains inhibited protein synthesis. A plaque assay and immunofluorescence test confirmed productive BVDV infection of PBMC. In addition, viral RNA synthesis was demonstrated in BVDV-infected PBMC by RT-PCR. The interleukin-2 receptor (IL-2R) was used as a marker for the activation status of BVDV-infected PBMC. The expression of IL-2R was preserved in virus-infected cells, even though DNA and protein synthesis was suppressed. These findings suggest a novel mechanism of virus-induced immune suppression in which BVDV inhibits basic metabolic activities of bovine PBMC. The activation signals, however, are maintained.


pmid: 27227496
title: Use of three-dimensional accelerometers to evaluate behavioral changes in cattle experimentally infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: OBJECTIVE To assess the use of 3-D accelerometers to evaluate behavioral changes in cattle experimentally infected with a low-virulent strain of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). ANIMALS 20 beef steers (mean weight, 238 kg). PROCEDURES Calves were allocated to a BVDV (n = 10) or control (10) group. On day 0, calves in the BVDV group were inoculated with a low-virulent strain of BVDV (4 × 10(6) TCID50, intranasally), and calves in the control group were sham inoculated with BVDV-free medium (4 mL; intranasally). An accelerometer was affixed to the right hind limb of each calf on day -7 to record activity (lying, walking, and standing) continuously until 35 days after inoculation. Baseline was defined as days -7 to -1. Blood samples were collected at predetermined times for CBC, serum biochemical analysis, virus isolation, and determination of anti-BVDV antibody titers. RESULTS All calves in the BVDV group developed viremia and anti-BVDV antibodies but developed only subclinical or mild disease. Calves in the control group did not develop viremia or anti-BVDV antibodies. Mean time allocated to each activity did not differ significantly between the BVDV and control groups on any day except day 8, when calves in the BVDV group spent less time standing than the calves in the control group. Following inoculation, calves in both groups tended to spend more time lying and less time walking and standing than they did during baseline. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE Results indicated that behavioral data obtained by accelerometers could not distinguish calves subclinically infected with BVDV from healthy control calves. However, subtle changes in the behavior of the BVDV-infected calves were detected and warrant further investigation.


pmid: 24134936
title: Characterization of genotypes among bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 strains according to palindromic nucleotide substitutions in the genomic 5'-untranslated region
abstract: Two-hundred and eighty-one strains of bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 (BVDV-1) were evaluated according to the palindromic nucleotide substitutions (PNS) method, a simple and practical genotyping procedure, at the three variable loci, V1, V2 and V3, in the 5'-untranslated region of genomic RNA. Ten PNSs were characteristic to the Pestivirus genus, located in the V1 and V2 loci. The BVDV-1 species shared a U-A pairing, a species-characteristic PNS, in position fifteen common to the V1 locus, and a G-C pairing in position five common to the V2 and V3 loci. Within the BVDV-1 species, 15 genotypes, BVDV-1a, BVDV-1b, BVDV-1c, BVDV-1d, and the newly described from BVDV-1e to BVDV-1o were identified based on characteristic nucleotide base pairings. The nomenclature reflected the genotypes' level of divergence within the species. Genotypes BVDV-1l, BVDV-1m and BVDV-1o were borderline in the species.


pmid: 15019111
title: Prevalence and epidemiological features of bovine viral diarrhoea virus infection in Lithuania
abstract: The objectives of the present work were to estimate the level of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection in cattle herds at the different Lithuanian districts and to determine factors influencing the course of BVDV infection. The studies were explored in 147 intensive dairy cattle breeding herds from 27 different Lithuanian regions in 1997-2001. BVDV infection was diagnosed in all investigated regions. The existing variations in the structure of cattle population determined different distribution patterns of BVDV infection. The number of seropositive animals ranged from 11.9 to 100%. It must be pointed out that 29.9% of the herds were not infected with BVDV and in 32.7% of the herds from 70 to 100% of cattle were seropositive to BVDV. A positive correlation between the number of seropositive cattle, and the size of herds and age of animals was determined. Sex of animal had no influence on the prevalence of BVDV. It was estimated that the annual incidence risk of infection with BVDV decreases with the animal age.


pmid: 19139516
title: Detection of Bovine viral diarrhea virus from three water buffalo fetuses (Bubalus bubalis) in southern Italy
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an important pathogen that primarily infects ruminants, leading to several clinical problems including abortion. BVDV-specific antibodies were reported in a wide range of hosts within domestic and wildlife animal populations, and serological studies also indicated BVDV infection in buffaloes. The purpose of this study was to analyze the presence of BVDV in 2 water buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) herds with a history of abortion. Virus isolation from aborted fetuses and from maternal buffy coat and the molecular characterization of the isolates confirmed the presence of BVDV in these animals. The sequence analysis based on the 5' UTR and N(pro) coding regions of the Pestivirus genome revealed that the isolates belong to subgenotype 1b of BVDV. The findings of this study also suggest a possible role of BVDV in causing congenital infection in water buffalo. Its presence in fetal tissues as well as in maternal blood raises questions about the possible development of clinical disease or its influence in abortions in water buffalo.


pmid: 12573600
title: Transmission of bovine viral diarrhoea virus by unhygienic vaccination procedures, ambient air, and from contaminated pens
abstract: Knowing how bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection spreads via indirect contacts is required in order to plan large-scale eradication schemes against BVDV. In this study, susceptible calves were exposed to BVDV by an unhygienic vaccination procedure, by ambient air and from contaminated pens. Primary BVDV infection was observed in two calves vaccinated with a vaccine against Trichophyton spp that had been contaminated by smearing nasal secretion from a persistently infected (PI) calf on the rubber membrane and penetrating it twice with a hypodermic needle. Four other calves, housed in pairs in two separate housing units near a PI calf for one week--at distances of 1.5 and 10 m, respectively--became infected without having direct contact with the PI calf. Furthermore, two of the three calves housed in a pen directly after removal of a PI calf, but without the pen being cleaned and disinfected, also contracted primary BVDV infection, whereas two calves that entered such a pen four days after removal of another PI calf, did not. In herds where most animals are seronegative to BVDV, indirect airborne transmission of BVDV or contact with a contaminated housing interior may be an important factor in spreading of the virus, once a PI animal is present. However, the spreading of BVDV within herds can be stopped by identifying and removing PI animals and also by ensuring that susceptible breeding animals do not become infected during this procedure. In contrast, injectables contaminated with BVDV may prove to be a significant vector for spreading the infection, not only within an infected herd but, most importantly, also between herds. In our opinion, it is questionable whether medicine bottles, once opened and used within an infected herd, should be used in other herds. In any case, prior knowledge of a herd's BVDV status will help practising veterinarians and technicians to undertake appropriate hygienic measures.


pmid: 8680840
title: Foetal infections with bovine viral diarrhoea virus in Argentina
abstract: The frequency of isolation of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) from primary tissue cultures and organs from bovine foetuses was studied between 1992 and 1994. Around 25% of primary tissue cultures were BVDV positive. Primary testis cultures were inoculated with homogenates of spleen, kidney, lung and liver from 52 foetuses. Cells were passaged twice and BVDV antigen investigated by indirect immunofluorescence. Non-cytopathic BVDV was detected in at least one organ in 11/52 foetuses (21.2%): 6/10 spleens, 4/7 kidneys, 7/9 lungs and 3/5 livers. Cytopathic BVDV was detected in lung and kidney from two foetuses. Since only gamma-irradiated sera are used in the laboratory and only inactivated BVDV vaccines are applied in Argentina, it was concluded that these isolations represented field infections. In addition to the 11 virus positive foetuses, two foetuses were positive for BVDV antibodies, which suggested a 25% prevalence of infection. These results stress the need for disease control on a herd basis and the requirement for biological reagents of bovine origin for the detection of BVDV.


pmid: 1696159
title: Monoclonal antibodies to the p80/125 gp53 proteins of bovine viral diarrhea virus: their potential use as diagnostic reagents
abstract: Monoclonal antibodies reactive to the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) protein gp53 were produced and characterized. These antibodies and our panel of anti-p80/125 monoclonal antibodies were tested for their cross-reactivity with 11 different North American and European (Danish) BVDV strains and isolates including viruses of both cytopathic and noncytopathic biotypes. The four anti-gp53 monoclonal antibodies were neutralizing for the homologous Danish cytopathic isolate and cross-reacted with all BVDV strains examined except for the Draper strain. Further, anti-gp53 monoclonal antibodies neutralized the majority of BVDV strains examined. The anti-p80/125 monoclonal antibodies cross-reacted with all eleven strains and isolates tested. This indicated that various strains of BVDV have common epitopes. The broad cross-reactivities demonstrated by these monoclonal antibodies suggest that a pool of these antibodies may be used for detection of BVDV cellular contamination or for virus isolation, in place of polyclonal antiserum.


pmid: 17039451
title: Evaluation of the efficacy of a modified-live combination vaccine against bovine viral diarrhea virus types 1 and 2 challenge exposures in a one-year duration-of-immunity fetal protection study
abstract: This study demonstrated that the modified-live bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type 1 and 2 fractions of a multivalent vaccine protected pregnant heifers and their fetuses against virulent BVDV types 1 and 2 challenge exposures at 370 days after vaccination. All BVDV vaccinated heifers inoculated with either BVDV type 1 or 2 at approximately 62 to 94 days of gestation delivered fetuses or calves that were negative for BVDV by ear-notch immunohistochemistry and virus isolation and serum neutralization on a prenursing serum sample. In comparison, eight of nine and 10 of 10 fetuses or calves from non-BVDV-vaccinated heifers were considered persistently infected following exposure to BVDV type 1 and type 2, respectively.


pmid: 17201198
title: The prevalent genotypes of bovine viral diarrhea virus in Japan, Germany and the United States of America
abstract: Genotypes and subgenotypes of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) field isolates from Japan, Germany and the United States of America (USA) were identified, and the prevalent pattern of BVDV in individual countries was estimated genetically. Subgenotypes were determined based on phylogenetic analyses of nucleotide sequences of a part of the E2-coding gene of BVDV. Forty-five, 61 and 56 BVDV strains were isolated from naturally infected cattle in Japan, Germany and USA, respectively, between 1980 and 2003. The most prevalent BVDV in these three countries was BVDV-1b. The second most prevalent BVDV strains were 1a, 1d and BVDV-2 in Japan, Germany and USA, respectively. The most prevalent subgenotype 1b in each country constructed individual small clusters in the subgenotype 1b branch in the phylogenetic tree. Although cattle and/or cattle products were moving among the three countries as part of international trade, the distribution of BVDV in the field in each country showed long-standing individual patterns.


pmid: 12756633
title: Evaluation of a modified live virus type-1a bovine viral diarrhea virus vaccine (Singer strain) against a type-2 (strain 890) challenge
abstract: Both type-1 and type-2 bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections are responsible for major losses in the cattle industry. However, several commercial BVDV vaccines contain only a type-1 strain. A vaccine trial was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of BVDV type-1 (Singer strain; BVDV-1) vaccine for protecting calves challenged with virulent BVDV type-2 (890 strain; BVDV-2). Thirty-eight BVDV-negative calves were randomly allocated to four groups. One group was treated with a modified live virus (MLV) BVDV-1 vaccine by i.m. injection and another group was treated with the same vaccine by s.c. injection. Two groups served as nonvaccinated controls (one i.m. and one s.c.). Twenty-eight days following vaccination, the calves were challenged with BVDV-2 and monitored for 21 days. Clinical scores and body temperatures of vaccinated calves were significantly (P<.05) lower than for controls on several days, and peak differences occurred 8 days after challenge. The control calves had significantly (P<.05) lower leukocyte counts 3 through 8 days after challenge; leukocyte counts for vaccinated animals did not decline significantly from prechallenge levels. There were no differences in protection between the i.m. and s.c. routes of vaccination. The study demonstrated satisfactory cross protection of the BVDV-1 vaccine against BVDV-2 challenge.


pmid: 11042415
title: Translation from the internal ribosome entry site of bovine viral diarrhea virus is independent of the interaction with polypyrimidine tract-binding protein
abstract: Translation of the pestiviral polyprotein is initiated cap independently at an internal site of the viral RNA, the internal ribosome entry site (IRES). We investigated the translation from the IRES of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and the possible interaction of the unconventional cellular RNA-binding proteins, particularly of polypyrimidine tract-binding protein (PTB). The BVDV IRES is translationally active in rabbit reticulocyte lysate (RRL), and it is translated most efficiently at low concentrations of Mg(2+)- and K(+)-ions. In the UV cross-link assay, several proteins from RRL bind to the BVDV IRES, including proteins of 50, 65 and 72kDa, but no protein of 57kDa possibly corresponding to PTB, although PTB is endogenously present in RRL. However, the BVDV IRES can bind PTB weakly under certain conditions. Interestingly, in a functional depletion and add-back translation system, PTB does not enhance translation of BVDV, although PTB enhances translation of a picornavirus in this translation stimulation assay. These results indicate that PTB can bind the BVDV IRES RNA, but translation is independent of the action of PTB.


pmid: 11193646
title: Evaluation of a new sandwich ELISA kit that uses serum for detection of cattle persistently infected with BVD virus
abstract: Cattle immunotolerant to and persistently infected (PI) with bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) virus (BVDV) constitute the mechanism by which BVDV persists in and spreads among cattle herds. Detection and elimination of PI cattle are necessary for control of BVD. Serum is an excellent specimen for BVD PI testing because of high survivability of BVDV in serum and ease of collection, storage, and handling. Currently, microtiter virus isolation (VI) employing serum and sandwich ELISAs (S-ELISA) on tissues or leukocytes are used for BVDV PI screening. This paper evaluates a new S-ELISA kit that uses serum as the diagnostic sample. Cattle sera (n = 408) were tested using VI and the S-ELISA. The VI detected 172 BVDV-positive sera. Of these, 18 were confirmed PI cattle. The S-ELISA was positive on all PI samples. Considering only the PI animals, and using VI as the gold standard, the relative sensitivity of S-ELISA was 100%. The overall relative sensitivity was 93.6% and the agreement quotient (kappa) was 0.94. The relative specificity of the kit, based on 236 VI-negative sera, was 100%. These data indicate that the new kit is very adequate for detection of BVDV PI cattle.


pmid: 11413379
title: Antigen-presenting cells from calves persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus, a member of the Flaviviridae, are not compromised in their ability to present viral antigen
abstract: The aim of this study was to assess whether the infection of antigen-presenting cells (APC) in vivo, evident in calves persistently infected (PI) with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), compromised their ability to stimulate virus-specific T cell responses. Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecule-identical cattle were identified from the inbred family at the Institute for Animal Health. One was PI and immunotolerant to BVDV. Virus was not isolated from the remaining calves, which were classified as BVDV-immune or BVDV-naïve depending on the presence or absence of BVDV-specific antibodies in sera. Two-colour flow-cytometric analysis of PBMC from the PI calf showed that 40% of CD14(+) monocytes were infected in vivo. Monocytes from the PI calf (PI monocytes) were used as naturally infected ex vivo APC with CD4(+) or CD8(+) T cells isolated from the BVDV-naïve or BVDV-immune animals. PI monocytes stimulated proliferative responses with CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells from BVDV-immune animals, but not from BVDV-naïve calves. This provided evidence for the presence of virus-specific CD4(+) and CD8(+) memory T cells after acute infection and indicated that ex vivo monocytes from PI, immunotolerant calves stimulated both MHC class I- and MHC class II-restricted T cell responses to BVDV. Additionally, naturally infected ex vivo monocytes cultured in vitro for 3 days stimulated effective T cell responses to the virus with which they were infected.


pmid: 11285641
title: [Vaccination of calves with contaminated batches of bovine herpes virus 1 vaccines did not result in infection with bovine virus diarrhea virus]
abstract: The aim of the experiment was to study whether bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV1) marker vaccine batches known to be contaminated with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) type 1 could cause BVD in cattle. For this purpose, four groups of cattle were used. The first group (n = 4 calves, the positive control group), was vaccinated with vaccine from a batch contaminated with BVDV type 2. The second group (n = 4 calves, the negative control group), was vaccinated with vaccine from a batch that was not contaminated with BVDV. The third group (n = 39 calves), was vaccinated with a vaccine from one of four batches contaminated with BVDV type 1 (seronegative experimental group). The fourth group (n = 6 seropositive heifers), was vaccinated with a vaccine from one of three batches known to be contaminated with BVDV type 1. All cattle were vaccinated with an overdose of the BHV1 marker vaccine. At the start of the experiment, all calves except those from group 4 were seronegative for BVDV and BHV1. The calves from group 4 had antibodies against BVDV, were BVDV-free and seronegative to BHV1. After vaccination, the positive control calves became severely ill, had fever for several days, and BVDV was isolated from nasal swabs and white blood cells. In addition, these calves produced antibodies to BVDV and BHV1. No difference in clinical scores of the other groups was seen, nor were BVDV or BVDV-specific antibody responses detected in these calves; however, they did produce antibodies against BHV1. The remainder of each vaccine vial used was examined for the presence of infectious BVDV in cell culture. From none of the vials was BVDV isolated after three subsequent passages. This indicates that BVDV was either absent from the vials or was present in too low an amount to be isolated. Thus vaccination of calves with vaccines from BHV1 marker vaccine batches contaminated with BVDV type 1 did not result in BVDV infections.


pmid: 19857453
title: Evaluation of a commercial bovine viral diarrhea virus vaccine in nonpregnant female alpacas (Vicugna pacos)
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an emerging pathogen in alpacas and many questions still persist regarding disease mechanisms and control strategies. The purpose of this study was to evaluate a commercial BVDV vaccine for safety and efficacy in alpacas. Five nonpregnant alpacas were vaccinated with a modified-live BVDV vaccine and challenged 25 days post-immunization by nasal and ocular inoculation with a BVDV Type 1b strain isolated from a confirmed BVDV persistently infected alpaca. Two nonpregnant alpacas served as non-vaccinated controls and were similarly challenged. Results indicated that BVDV virus could not be detected from the vaccinated alpacas but was detected in the unvaccinated alpacas. Results suggest that administration of modified-live BVDV vaccine protected the alpacas in this study from experimental challenge and no adverse effects from the vaccine were observed.


pmid: 8266890
title: Estimation of herd incidence of infection with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in herds previously without animals persistently infected with BVDV
abstract: On a previous occasion, all animals in 9 herds had been bled for bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and antibodies. No animals persistently infected (PI) with BVDV were detected. Three years later 10 animals in each herd were tested again. By this time 60 out of 90 previously seronegative animals had seroconverted. Seroconversions had occurred in 8 of the 9 herds corresponding to a incidence risk of herd infection of 0.52 per year. The incidence risk of seroconversions in individual animals was 0.31. Examination of young stock for antibodies and determination of antibody titer in bulk milk were good indicators for ongoing infections in the herds. The number of herd infections seemed to be higher than could be explained from purchase of PI animals.


pmid: 17423913
title: Comparative serological response in calves to eight commercial vaccines against infectious bovine rhinotracheitis, parainfluenza-3, bovine respiratory syncytial, and bovine viral diarrhea viruses
abstract: A field trial was conducted to compare the serological responses in calves to eight commercial vaccines against infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBRV), parainfluenza-3 virus (PI3V), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), and/or bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Calves given IBRV, P13V, BRSV, and BVDV vaccines had significantly higher antibodies to these viruses than unvaccinated controls; however, serological responses to killed BVDV vaccines were low. Calves with preexisting antibodies to IBRV, PI3V, BRSV, and the Singer strain of BVDV had lower seroconversion rates following vaccination than calves that were seronegative initially.Serological responses in calves to IBRV, PI3V, BRSV, and BVDV differed among various commercial vaccines. Antibody titers to IBRV were higher in calves vaccinated with modified-live IBRV vaccines than in those vaccinated with killed IBRV vaccines. Following double vaccination with modified-live IBRV and PI3V vaccines, seroconversion rates and antibody titers to IBRV and PI3V were higher in calves vaccinated intramuscularly than in those vaccinated intranasally. Calves given Cattlemaster 4 had significantly higher titers to BRSV and PI3V, and lower titers to BVDV, than calves given Cattlemaster 3, suggesting that the addition of BRSV to Cattlemaster 4 caused some interaction among antigens.


pmid: 1325331
title: An experimental contribution to the study of the pathogenesis of bovine viral diarrhea virus infection
abstract: This presentation summarizes the results of a study on the pathogenesis of bovine viral diarrhea (BVDV) infection. The cytopathic (CP) strain TVM-2 of BVDV induced in calves an overt clinical disease which is usually recorded as the acute primary BVDV infection observed under natural conditions. In contrast the non-cytopathic (NCP) strain New York-1 of BVDV did not cause any significant signs of disease. However, when the calves were immunosuppressed by treatment with dexamethasone (DMS) the biotype of BVDV involved did not seem to be as important as it appeared to be in an immunologically normal animal. This was shown in this study by the NCP BVDV which caused a fatal disease in calves treated with DMS. A mixed infection given to calves by injecting them with both CP and NCP BVDV, did not result in any particularly serious disease. So, the potential immunosuppressive activity of BVDV itself for the host has not been proven under the experimental procedures used in this experiment. Finally, a modified-live CP BVDV vaccine was unable to cause clinical disease when injected into calves that had been infected previously with strain New York-1 of BVDV.


pmid: 10591493
title: Uterine tubal cells remain uninfected after culture with in vitro-produced embryos exposed to bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has been isolated from washed and sonicated, in vitro-produced embryos, but the infectivity of BVDV associated with intact, developing, embryos has not been demonstrated. The objective of this study was to determine if a dose of BVDV infective for co-culture cells was associated with individual, developing embryos, following artificial exposure to the virus and washing. In 5 replicates, zona pellucida-intact, in vitro-produced embryos were assigned to a negative control embryo group, or were incubated in 10(5)-10(6) cell culture infective doses (50%, CCID50) per milliliter of a type I, noncytopathic (strain SD-1) BVDV for 2 h. Unexposed negative control embryos and exposed positive control embryos were washed, sonicated and assayed for BVDV using virus isolation with immunoperoxidase monolayer assay. Immediately or following cryopreservation, remaining virally-exposed, washed embryos were co-cultured individually with BVDV-negative cultures of bovine uterine tubal cells in a medium free of BVDV-neutralizing activity. After two days in culture, uterine tubal cells and embryos (including the zona pellucida) were separated and washed. The culture medium, uterine tubal cells and embryos were then assayed for BVDV. Bovine viral diarrhea virus was not isolated from any negative control embryo group, but was isolated from all positive control embryo groups. Although all uterine tubal cell populations were confirmed to be susceptible to BVDV, virus was never isolated from uterine tubal cells or embryos from post-exposure culture. In conclusion, although BVDV remains associated with washed in vitro-produced embryos, the virus associated with unsonicated embryos was not infective for uterine tubal cells in vitro.


pmid: 6261615
title: Viral contamination of bovine fetal lung cultures and bovine fetal serum
abstract: Commercial bovine fetal serum (BFS) and bovine fetal lung (BFL) cells were tested for viruses. The only virus detected in any samples was noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Of 37 BFL cultures initiated, 34 were negative for BVDV, 1 was positive, and 2 were suspicious in that the source of BVDV contamination was not certain. Of 9 lots of irradiated sera tested, 1 (10%) was positive for BVDV; of 21 lots of nonirradiated sera tested, 13 (62%) were positive for BVDV. As judged by intensity of fluorescence in infected cultures, some cell strains were much more susceptible to BVDV than other strains. Heat inactivation of serum at 56 C for 30 minutes was found to be an unreliable method of eliminating BVDV from sera.


pmid: 16727336
title: Isolation of bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in association with the in vitro production of bovine embryos
abstract: The purpose of this study was to determine whether oocytes obtained from bovine ovaries collected at commercial abattoirs for use in in vitro fertilization programs would be contaminated with bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1) and/or bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). In total, of 85 samples tested containing 759 embryos produced by in vitro fertilization, 2 (2.4%) were positive for BHV-1 while none were positive for BVDV. The follicular fluid collected during oocyte aspiration tested positive in 11.8% for BVH-1 and in 4.7% for BVDV. Oviductal cells used to co-culture zygotes/embryos tested positive for BHV-1 and BVDV in 6.2% and 1.2% samples respectively.


pmid: 9011939
title: [Immunohistology as a reliable and efficient method for the diagnosis of BVDV infections]
abstract: Persistent infection with the Bovine Viral Diarrhea/ Mucosal Disease Virus (BVDV) can be detected using immunohistological methods. The experiments show that the LSAB (Labeled Streptavidin Biotin) peroxidase method is suitable to detect the BVDV in cryostat sections of unfixed tissue. For the diagnostic work up in living animals, skin biopsies give reliable results. In dead animals, organs such as thyroid gland, skin, mucosa of the mouth, esophagus and abomasum are well suitable for immunohistological BVDV detection.


pmid: 11131328
title: Replication and persistence of different strains of bovine viral diarrhea virus in an in vitro embryo production system
abstract: Recent studies have shown that exposed, in vitro-derived embryos remain contaminated with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) after washing. However, introduction of a Genotype II versus Genotype I strain of BVDV into an IVF system was reported to provide greater potential for transmission of disease. The primary objective of this study was to compare the potentials for different strains of noncytopathic BVDV to replicate in an IVF system, associate with IVF embryos and infect co-cultured cells via association with washed embryos. The secondary objective was to compare the effect of different strains of BVDV on embryonic development. Two Genotype I (SD-1 and NY-1) and 2 Genotype II (CD-87 and PA-131) strains of BVDV were evaluated. After IVM and IVF of oocytes, presumptive zygotes were washed and transferred into in vitro cultures containing uterine tubal cells (UTC) and medium that was free of BVDV-neutralizing activity. Immediately before addition of zygotes, the cultures were inoculated with 10(5) cell culture infective doses (50%, CCID50) of a strain of BVDV or maintained as a negative control. Cultures of zygotes were then incubated for 7 d. Embryonic development was observed on Days 3 and 7, and attempts were made to isolate BVDV from UTC and medium on Day 7. Also on Day 7, groups of intact, washed blastocysts were either transferred into virus-free secondary cultures containing UTC or sonicated with sonicate fluid assayed by both virus isolation and single-closed-tube reverse transcription nested polymerase chain reaction (RT-nPCR). After 3 d in secondary culture, hatched embryos were enumerated, and medium from the cultures, washed UTC and embryos were tested for BVDV by virus isolation. In addition, washed UTC and embryos were tested for BVDV using RT-nPCR. All strains of BVDV persisted and replicated in the embryo culture environment, but cleavage beyond the 4-cell stage, blastocyst development and hatching varied among cultures contaminated with different strains of virus. Further, the quantity of BVDV associated with washed embryos from both initial and secondary cultures varied among strains, but the variation was unrelated to difference in genotype (SD-1 and PA-131 greater than NY-1 and CD-87). Although all strains of BVDV replicated in UTC in the initial in vitro cultures and remained associated with washed blastocysts, susceptible UTC in the secondary in vitro cultures were seldom infected by any strain of virus.


pmid: 1334641
title: Differences in virulence between two noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea viruses in calves
abstract: A noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), BVDV-890, isolated from a yearling heifer that died with extensive internal hemorrhages, was compared for virulence in calves with noncytopathic BVDV-TGAN, isolated from an apparently healthy persistently infected calf. After challenge exposure with BVDV-890, nonimmune calves (n = 7) developed fever > 40 C, diarrhea, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia. Most calves (n = 6) died or were euthanatized by 19 days after challenge exposure. Challenge exposure with BVDV-890 did not induce disease in 2 calves that had congenital persistent infection with BVDV or in 3 calves that had neutralizing antibody titer > 4 against BVDV-890. After challenge exposure with BVDV-TGAN, nonimmune calves (n = 7) developed fever > 40 C and, rarely, diarrhea or lymphopenia. All of those calves survived challenge exposure. The average maximal titer of BVDV-890 isolated from serum was 1,000 times that of BVDV-TGAN. In calves infected with BVDV-890, the average maximal percentages of lymphocytes and platelets associated with virus were greater than those found in calves infected with BVDV-TGAN. Additional findings of epidemiologic significance were prolonged shedding of virus and delayed production of viral-neutralizing antibody in 1 calf challenge-exposed with BVDV-890. Also, after production of neutralizing antibody, mutant virus that was refractory to neutralization was isolated from calves challenge-exposed with BVDV-TGAN.


pmid: 9323848
title: A congenital persistent infection of bovine virus diarrhoea virus in pigs: clinical, virological and immunological observations
abstract: We report on a lifelong 'carrier' state of non-cytopathic bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in an otherwise healthy pig. Three out of 13 pigs of a litter congenitally infected with BVDV survived for more than 3 months. One pig was BVDV seropositive at 1 month, the second seroconverted between 6 and 8 months, and the third remained viraemic and BVDV-immunotolerant until slaughter at 26 months. The latter pig, a boar, excreted virus in oropharyngeal fluid, urine and semen. Ejaculates, however, did not contain spermatozoa. The persistently infected pig had leucopenia from 3 months onwards, though differential white cell counts and thrombocyte counts remained normal. The antibody response of this pig after vaccination against foot-and-mouth disease and after infection with porcine parvovirus was not affected. The antibody response after vaccination against hog cholera, however, was delayed. In contrast, superinfection with antigenically related cytopathic BVDV strains did not alter the status of BVDV immunotolerance, nor did it induce clinical signs resembling mucosal disease as observed in cattle persistently infected with BVDV. Although the role of pigs in the epizootiology of bovine virus diarrhoea infections may be limited, the existence of healthy BVDV carrier pigs should be noted wherever control or eradication measures are applied.


pmid: 2552639
title: Development of a neutralising antibody response to an inoculated cytopathic strain of bovine virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: Fourteen clinically healthy cattle that were persistently infected with non-cytopathic bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and three BVDV-free cattle were inoculated with one of three cytopathic BVDV strains. Mucosal disease developed in 12 of the viraemic cattle, resulting in a moribund condition 17 to 99 days after inoculation. Two of the viraemic cattle remained clinically healthy until the end of the experiment, 14 months after inoculation. The BVDV-free cattle did not develop clinical signs after inoculation. From each cow with mucosal disease a noncytopathic and a cytopathic BVDV strain were isolated from tissue specimens collected post mortem. All the cattle developed moderate to high levels of neutralising antibodies against the cytopathic BVDV strain with which they were inoculated. The antibodies from 10 of the 12 cattle with mucosal disease did not react with the cytopathic BVDV strains isolated post mortem, and antibodies from none of them reacted with the non-cytopathic BVDV isolates. Antibody responses to the inoculated BVDV strains developed earlier in the viraemic cattle than in the BVDV-free cattle.


pmid: 12387352
title: Diagnostic dilemma encountered when detecting bovine viral diarrhea virus in IVF embryo production
abstract: Routine quality controls in production of bovine embryos by in vitro fertilization (IVF) should include screening all materials of animal origin for the presence of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Using a reverse transcription nested polymerase chain reaction (RT-nPCR) assay, we detected BVDV in primary cultures of uterine tubal cells (UTC) that had been used during IVF procedures. The goal of our ensuing investigation was to determine its source and assess risks associated with the identified contaminant. Sequencing of the amplified 5' nontranslated region (NTR) of the viral genome confirmed a Genotype I BVDV contaminant. This viral contaminant was also identified by RT-nPCR in multiple samples of the same lot of fetal bovine serum (FBS) that was used in transport media by the laboratory that harvested the UTC. Both routine and enhanced roller bottle methods for virus isolation failed to detect BVDV in the FBS. Furthermore, virus neutralization assays did identify antibodies to Genotype I strains of BVDV in the FBS. After 7 days of co-incubation, neither cultured, washed UTC nor exposed, washed embryos were RT-nPCR positive for BVDV. Eight embryos produced in the contaminated system were nonsurgically transferred into eight seronegative cows. None of the embryo recipients seroconverted to BVDV. Thus, contamination of cell culture medium with BVDV did not result in transmission of the virus when IVF embryos were transferred. Failure to transmit disease was likely aided by serendipitous control from anti-BVDV antibodies in the FBS. However, a diagnostic dilemma was created when the RT-nPCR assays used to screen for BVDV were positive, yet attempts to isolate the virus were negative. This case study illustrates that if molecular assays are to be used to confirm the pathogen-free status of IVF embryo production systems, media components of animal origin (e.g. FBS) should be screened with molecular assays for BVDV as well as traditional virus isolation techniques.


pmid: 12784559
title: [Antibody titer against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in bulk milk samples from Bavaria]
abstract: A total of 5204 bulk milk samples were tested for antibodies against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) classified according to the scheme after Alenius. Forty-five percent of the samples from 2002 were classified as class 0 and class 1, 55% as class 2 and 3. 6420 bulk milk samples from 1997 were classified in an independent study in 65.6% class 0 and 1 and 34.4% in class 2 and 3. In class 0 and class 1 farms only very rarely persistent viremic animals have been found, whereas in class 2 and 3 their presence is highly likely. Our studies with non-selected sera defined the serological screening of bulk milk samples as a promising tool for a possible BVDV eradication program in Bavaria.


pmid: 18838184
title: A stochastic model to assess the risk of introduction of bovine viral diarrhea virus to beef cow-calf herds
abstract: A spreadsheet model using Monte Carlo simulation was designed to evaluate the introduction of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) to cow-calf farms and the effect of different testing strategies. Risks were modeled to include imports to the cow-calf herd and stocker calves imported to adjacent pastures. The number of persistently infected (PI) animals imported and the probability of BVDV introduction were monitored for three herd sizes, four import profiles, and six testing strategies. Importing stockers and importing pregnant heifers were the biggest risks for introduction of BVDV. Testing for PI animals in stockers decreased the risk they posed, but testing pregnant heifers was not sufficient to decrease risk unless their calves were also tested. Test sensitivity was more influential than PI prevalence on the likelihood of BVDV introduction, when all imports were tested. This model predicts the risk of BVDV introduction for individual herds based on management decisions, and should prove to be a useful tool to help cow-calf producers in controlling the risk of importing BVDV to a naïve herd.


pmid: 20437391
title: Characterisation of genotypes among bovine viral diarrhoea virus 2 strains according to palindromic nucleotide substitutions in the 5 untranslated genomic region
abstract: Pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 (BVDV-2) strains from 61 isolates from cattle and sheep, and from some adventitious contaminants of biologicals, have been assessed using the palindromic nucleotide substitutions (PNS) method at three variable loci (V1, V2 and V3) located delin the 5' untranslated region (UTR) of genomic RNA. This genotyping procedure is new, simple and practical. Two characteristics of the base pairings common to BVDV-2 species, a C-G or U-A pairing at the V1 locus, and a G*U pairing at the V2 locus, were observed in isolates tested. The PNS method showed six genotypes: BVDV-2a, BVDV-2b, BVDV-2c, BVDV- 2d, BVDV-2e and BVDV-2f. Twenty-five strains showed the BVDV-2a genotype specific combination of three base pairings (A-U in position 1 and C-G or U*G in position 18 in V1 and U-A or U*G in position 4 in V2). Ten strains were identified by a single C-G pairing in position 4 from the bottom of the V2 stem region, characteristic to genotype BVDV-2b. Three strains were assigned to genotype BVDV-2c, due to their recognition by a G*U pairing at the bottom of the V1 stem region. A U-A pairing, characteristic of the BVDV-2d genotype when found in position 18 of the V1 stem region, was observed in fourteen strains. Genotype BVDV- 2e, present in only six South American cattle isolates, was characterized by G-C pairing in position 12, by U-A pairing in position 16 and G_G or G-_A bulges in position 18 in the V1 region. One strain from Argentina was classified as genotype BVDV-2f, showing: A-U pairing in position 9 and 12, U-A in position 16 and G_A bulge in position 18 in V1 region. Two strains were not characterized due to incomplete sequence of V1 locus.


pmid: 9476243
title: Serologic evidence of bovine viral diarrhea virus in free-ranging rabbits from Germany
abstract: From 1993 to 1995, 100 blood samples and 97 spleen samples of free-ranging rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) from northern Germany were tested for prevalence of different bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) antibodies and BVDV antigen, respectively. Forty sera (40%) were positive for antibodies to one or more of three cytopathogenic BVDV strains (NADL, Grub 313/83, and roe deer isolate SH9/11). Microneutralization test (NT) titers ranged from 5 to 13. Moreover, 13 of 35 NT positive sera also were positive by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for detection of anti-BVDV antibodies. Therefore, we assume that the rabbits either had passively acquired antibodies or had experienced natural infection with BVDV. Furthermore, 97 spleen samples were used for attempts to isolate BVDV and tested by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction for viral nucleic acid using various protocols. Bovine viral diarrhea virus was not identified in these samples.


pmid: 9793236
title: [The occurrence of BVD virus infections in lower Austrian dairy farms]
abstract: Bulk tank milk samples from 5,024 dairy herds in Lower Austria were tested by ELISA for antibodies to bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV). Approximately 54 per cent of the herds had a low level of bulk tank antibody unsuspected of recent infection with BVDV. In 512 herds, which had a high level of bulk tank antibody suggestive of recent infection with BVDV, milk samples from 5-10 primiparous cows, respectively were tested by ELISA for antibodies to BVDV. In 287 (56.1%) of these 512 herds only antibody-negative primiparous cows were detected. In 759 herds blood samples from 8-10 young stock, respectively were tested by ELISA for antibodies to BVDV. The majority of the tested animals was seronegative in 583 (76.8%) herds. The whole stock from 154 herds was tested for persistent BVDV infections. From 51 herds in all 149 cattle persistently infected with BVDV were detected. Because of the low prevalence of BVDV infections it seems possible to control BVDV without vaccination in Lower Austrian dairy farms.


pmid: 10930681
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus types 1 and 2 antibody response in calves receiving modified live virus or inactivated vaccines
abstract: Serums from calves receiving eight different commercial vaccines containing modified live virus (MLV) or inactivated bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) immunogens were assayed for antibodies to types 1 and 2 BVDV strains. The immune response to the types 1 and 2 BVDV strains were evaluated in 48 calves receiving one of the eight vaccines for each group. For 7/8 vaccines, the BVDV vaccine immunogen was only type 1 whereas the remaining vaccine contained both types 1 and 2 immunogens. Calves administered MLV vaccine received only one dose at day 0, whereas those calves receiving the inactivated vaccines were administered two doses initially at days 0 and 28. Selected calves were revaccinated with only one dose at day 140. Animals vaccinated with type 1 vaccines developed titers to a broad range of type 1 BVDV, both cytopathic (CP) and noncytopathic (NCP) biotypes, with lower titers evident to type 2 BVDV strains. For some animals, the BVDV serum antibodies did not persist. Revaccination at day 140 induced a significant four-fold increase in animals with intermediate to low antibody titers. There did not appear to be any clear differences in antibody responses between type 1 MLV or inactivated vaccines. The calves receiving the inactivated vaccine containing types 1 and 2 had similar antibody levels to both types.


pmid: 9592949
title: The duration of antibodies against bovine virus diarrhoea virus in bulk milk
abstract: Fifty-eight dairy herds, suspected to be recently infected with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) due to a rise in BVDV antibodies in bulk milk, were followed over a two-year period. In 34 (59%) of these 58 herds (Group 1), pooled milk samples from heifers or pooled blood samples from calves were negative for BVDV antibodies. In this group as many as 53 and 76% of the herds again had antibody-negative bulk milk one and two years after the positive sample, respectively. Of the remaining herds, 5 and 17% had negative samples after one and 2 years respectively. Possible explanations for the limited duration of antibodies against BVDV in bulk milk are discussed. In 65% of the herds in Group 1, animals had been purchased and introduced into the herd, or the herds had been exposed to other forms of contact representing a risk of infection with BVDV. In the remaining 35% of the herds in this group, no explanation for the rise in BVDV antibodies in the bulk milk could be found. In this study the introduction of seropositive animals into the herd, and infection inducing seroconversion in one or more animals as the only result, seem to be the most probable explanations for the rise in antibody levels observed in Group 1.


pmid: 11866695
title: Modulation of sex hormone secretion in cows by acute infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is a major pathogen of cattle and is responsible for considerable reproductive loss. In this study, the in vivo responses in six multiparous cows were investigated after a non-cytopathogenic BVDV challenge (strain Pe 515; 5 x 10(6) tissue culture infective dose 50) given 9 days before a synchronized ovulation. Six similar cows challenged with non-infectious culture medium served as controls. The experimental noncytopathogenic BVDV infection was followed by a viraemia and leucopenia at days 5-9 after challenge, but no other clinical signs of infection were detected. However, the BVDV infection altered endocrine function. Mean LH pulse frequency immediately before CIDR withdrawal was lower (P < or = 0.05) in the BVDV-infected (2.17 +/- 0.34 pulses per 8 h) compared with the sham-infected (4.83 +/- 1.04 pulses per 8 h) animals. At day 3 after CIDR withdrawal, plasma oestradiol concentrations remained high (P < 0.05) in the infected cows (2.19 +/- 0.51 pg ml(-1)) compared with the sham-infected controls (0.72 +/- 0.29 pg ml(-1)). However, there was no difference in the peak oestradiol concentration (BVDV: 2.31 +/- 0.29 versus sham: 2.34 +/- 0.41 pg ml(-1)). In addition, non-cytopathogenic BVDV significantly (P < 0.05) increased the duration of the interval between ovulation and onset of the postovulatory progesterone increase (values 1.0 ng ml(-1)) (BVDV: 3.0 +/- 0.26 versus sham: 4.0 +/- 0.26 days). The viral infection also significantly (P < 0.01) decreased mean plasma progesterone concentrations between day 3 and day 11 after ovulation (BVDV: 2.59 +/- 0.32 versus sham: 4.13 +/- 0.27 ng ml(-1)). These data show that non-cytopathogenic BVDV viraemias during the follicular phase can modulate the secretion of gonadotrophins and sex steroids, in particular progesterone, during a synchronized oestrous cycle. Therefore, viraemias during the follicular phase may reduce the fertility of cattle by disrupting the capacity of the ovulatory follicle to form a competent corpus luteum, thereby compromising early embryo development and maternal recognition of pregnancy.


pmid: 8053150
title: Identification of a new group of bovine viral diarrhea virus strains associated with severe outbreaks and high mortalities
abstract: New BVDV strains associated with very high mortalities, which killed about 25% of the veal calves in Quebec in 1993, have been isolated. In this study, characterization of the last two-thirds of the 5' untranslated region (5'UTR) of their genome and virus neutralization experiments with polyvalent antisera raised in different animals both demonstrated that these strains formed a distinct group. Despite a difference of about 25% in the 5'UTR sequence with that of the classical strains, these 5'UTRs maintained the same secondary structure albeit with a higher stability. Serological crossreactivity between the classical and new BVDV strains was relatively low and suggest that new strains should also be included to obtain efficient BVDV vaccines. Based upon the distinct characteristics of these new BVDV strains, we propose to divide BVDV into two groups. Group I comprises the classical BVDV isolates including commonly used laboratory and vaccine strains, and group II comprises the newly described BVDV strains and those associated with thrombocytopenia and hemorrhaging.


pmid: 7598787
title: Flow cytometric analyses of lymphocyte subsets in peripheral blood and lymphoid tissues of gnotobiotic calves during primary acute postnatal infections of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Eight 1-day-old gnotobiotic calves were exposed to one of 2 noncytopathic isolates of bovine viral diarrhea virus (ncp-BVDV 7937 and ncp-BVDV 126) and 2 similar calves were not infected and served as controls. Phenotypic analyses of peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes at 3, 7, and 10 days postinfection (PI), and cell preparations of thymus, Peyer's patch, mesenteric lymph node, spleen, and bone marrow collected at necropsy, 10 days PI, were conducted using flow cytometric techniques on cells stained by an indirect fluorescent antibody assay using monoclonal antibodies specific for mononuclear leukocyte subsets. Significant fluctuations in specific subsets of peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes were observed in calves exposed to ncp-BVDV 7937 on day 3 PI (cells expressing MHC class II), day 7 PI (B-cells), and day 10 PI (B cells and cells expressing MHCII). Significant phenotypic differences between groups were also detected in cell preparations from Peyer's patch and thymus. Calves exposed to ncp-BVDV 7937 had a significantly higher percentage of B cells than calves exposed to ncp-BVDV 126 and calves not exposed to BVDV. Calves exposed to ncp-BVDV 126 had a significantly higher percentage of CD2 (BoCD2) positive T cells than calves not exposed to BVDV. Fragility of thymic cell preparations was attributed to infection with virus. These results highlight the importance of the tropism of BVDV for cells of the bovine immune system and its role as a significant immunosuppressive agent capable of predisposing affected animals to infection with other agents.


pmid: 9576338
title: Detection of cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus in the ovaries of cattle following immunization with a modified live bovine viral diarrhea virus vaccine
abstract: Economic loss from infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is of worldwide concern. The unique pathogenesis and antigenic variability of BVDV have made this virus challenging to control. Vaccination programs are a major component of control and prevention strategies. Both killed and modified live vaccines are commercially available. Choice between killed and modified live vaccines is controversial. Of major concern is the safety of modified live vaccines. Little information is available on their tissue tropism and potential for causing pathology, especially with respect to the reproductive system. The objective of this study was to determine if BVDV could be detected in the ovary of cattle following immunization with a modified live BVDV vaccine. In 2 separate trials, 6 heifers and 4 mature cows were immunized with a modified live BVDV vaccine and ovaries were removed between 7 and 30 days postvaccination. Cytopathic BVDV was isolated from ovaries removed on days 8, 10, and 12. BVDV antigen was detected using immunohistochemistry on days 10-30. These findings are significant because replication of virus in the ovary could cause ovarian dysfunction, resulting in reduced fertility.


pmid: 3031112
title: Competitive and blocking enzyme-linked immunoassay for detection of fetal bovine serum antibodies to bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: A competitive blocking enzyme-linked immunoassay (CELIA) was developed to detect bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) antibodies in undiluted fetal bovine serum (FBS). The CELIA was based on competition of serum BVDV antibodies with biotin-labelled anti-BVDV immunoglobulins (Ig) for a limited quantity of solid-phase BVDV antigen. Antigen preparation was simple, FBS could be tested undiluted, and detergent-containing washes were unnecessary. A series of dilutions of postnatal bovine BVDV antiserum prepared in FBS and a set of 147 undiluted abbatoir FBS samples were tested by both CELIA and serum neutralization tests (SNT). CELIA results on both sets of specimens correlated positively with SNT titers (r = 0.99 and r = 0.85). Relative to the SNT, CELIA sensitivity was 100%; specificity was 76%. CELIA detected a level of BVDV antibody below the 1:2-titer threshold detectable with the SNT. Advantages, limitations, and theoretical differences between the CELIA and SNT are discussed. A similar comparison of CELIA with non-competitive enzyme-linked immunoassay approaches to BVDV serodiagnosis is made. It is concluded that the CELIA is valuable in selecting only BVDV-seronegative FBS for use in virologic cell culture media.


pmid: 19139518
title: Disseminated Bovine viral diarrhea virus in a persistently infected alpaca (Vicugna pacos) cria
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an emerging infectious pathogen of concern to the alpaca industry. A 4-month-old, intact, male alpaca cria was diagnosed as persistently infected with BVDV on the basis of repeated positive antemortem polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and virus isolation (VI) assays and negative serologic titers to BVDV. Immunohistochemistry, real-time reverse transcription PCR, and VI performed on tissues collected at necropsy demonstrated disseminated BVDV-1b infection. Virus was detected in multiple tissues, including parotid salivary gland, testes, prostate, kidneys, skin, and gastrointestinal tract. Demonstration of BVDV in previously unreported tissues suggests additional potential routes of BVDV transmission in alpacas.


pmid: 10591495
title: Ovine pestiviruses: their taxonomic status revealed by palindromic nucleotide substitutions
abstract: We examined previously identified border disease virus (BDV) strains by using a newly proposed genotyping procedure based on palindromic nucleotide substitutions (PNS) in the 5'-untranslated region (UTR), and found 22 (41.5%) out of 53 strains of BDV in the nucleotide sequence databases are not of BDV. All the 22 ovine pestivirus strains were allocated to the BVDV species according to the PNS, and were compared with reference strains of pestivirus 1 (BVDV-Ia,-Ib, and-Ic genovars), pestivirus 2 (BVDV-II genovar), pestivirus 3 (BDV) and pestivirus 4 (CSFV), respectively. Ten strains (Weybridge, A553, B1056, D771/1, D861, D1120/1, D1432/P, Q1161/1, Q1161/2, 114817) showed a palindromic structure in the 5'-UTR characteristic to the BVDV-Ia genovar, three strains (7535, 7546, 7548) were characteristic to the BVDV-Ib genovar, and nine strains (BD-78, 59386, SCP, Lees, C413, 167237, 168149, 173157, 175375) belonged to the BVDV-II genovar.


pmid: 1323165
title: Bovine virus diarrhoea virus induces in vitro a proliferative response of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from cattle immunized by infection
abstract: The ability of bovine peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) to mount a proliferative response to bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in vitro was examined. After culturing PBMC in the presence of a non-cytopathic strain of BVDV for 6 days, the magnitude of PBMC proliferation was measured as incorporation of radiolabelled thymidine, present during the last 18 h. Live, but not heat-inactivated, BVDV evoked a proliferative response of PBMC obtained from cattle seropositive to the virus. However, PBMC from seronegative or persistently BVDV-infected animals were not stimulated by BVDV. The presence of live BVDV did not alter the proliferative response of PBMC to stimulation with concanavalin A.


pmid: 6283955
title: Border disease virus isolation from postpartum ewes
abstract: The prevalence of border disease virus in a flock of Targhee sheep in southern Idaho was determined by serologic and virologic techniques. Of 249 ewes, 73 (29%) were seropositive to the antigenically related togavirus, bovine seropositive to the antigenically related togavirus, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Concurrent testing of sera from 337 neonatal lambs indicated that 172 (51%) were seropositive for BVDV. It was observed that a high percentage (35%) of the BVDV-seropositive lambs were derived from seronegative ewes. Immunotolerance of the ewe was considered as the explanation for the lack of serologic relationship between seropositive lambs and their seronegative dams. Eleven cytopathogenic viruses were isolated from nasal and vaginal specimens obtained from 80 clinically healthy ewes within 24 hours of parturition. The viral isolates were demonstrated to be antigenically related to BVDV by direct immunofluorescence. Six of the 11 isolates were obtained from BVDV-seronegative ewes.


pmid: 9011043
title: Immune response to vaccination with DNA encoding the bovine viral diarrhea virus major glycoprotein gp53 (E2)
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a worldwide pathogen in cattle which has not been controlled by classical vaccination. The region encoding the BVDV major glycoprotein gp53 (E2) known to possess virus-neutralizing activity was cloned into a mammalian expression vector under the human cytomegalovirus (CMV) intermediate early promoter. Intramuscular and intradermal administration of the recombinant plasmid DNA into BALB/c mice induced BVDV gp53-specific antibody responses to both biotypes (cytopathic and noncytopathic) of BVDV genotype 1, and to cytopathic BVDV genotype 2. BVDV-neutralizing antibodies were generated against BVDV genotype 1 strains and they also persisted 6 months after the last injection.


pmid: 2552879
title: Modulation of the cellular immune responses to T-cell-dependent and T cell-independent antigens in lambs with induced bovine viral diarrhea virus infection
abstract: Functional interaction between lymphoid cells and lymphotropic viruses is particularly evident for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in cattle and its closely related virus, the border disease virus (BVDV) in sheep. The most important aspect of acute or chronic phases of BVDV or BDV infection was the host's increased susceptibility to secondary bacterial or viral infection. To study the ability of BVDV to alter the development of the cellular immune responses to concomitant inoculation with T cell-dependent and T cell-independent antigens, lambs were inoculated twice with rabbit RBC and Escherichia coli lipopolysacharide (LPS) and then were infected with a cytopathic strain of BVDV at postinoculation day 3. Leukopenia characterized by lymphopenia developed after BVDV infection. Increased [3H]thymidine incorporation was observed in resting or lectin-stimulated blood mononuclear cells in the first weeks after inoculation in BVDV-infected lambs, but was followed by decreased [3H]thymidine incorporation after the second inoculation for up to 8 weeks after initial inoculation. In contrast, transient decrease of blastogenic responses, associated with toxic effect of LPS, was detected in inoculated noninfected lambs, but was followed by stimulation of cellular immune responses. Inoculated noninfected lambs had good in vitro cellular immune response to rabbit RBC and LPS antigens, whereas lymphocytes from BVDV-infected lambs could not mount lasting cellular immune responses to antigens or BVDV. Results suggest that BVDV infection in lambs modulates the ability of lymphocytes to respond to lectins or antigenic stimuli according to the time after infection.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


pmid: 16728033
title: Embryo transfer from donor cattle persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: This study was done to examine the reproductive efficiency of embryo transfer donors that were persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and to determine the potential for vertical or horizontal transmission of BVDV during embryo transfer from persistently infected donors. The reproductive inefficiency of 7 different persistently infected donors was evident by consistent failure at superovulation and/or fertilization. Washing of embryos according to the reccommendations of the International Embryo Transfer Society (IETS) prevented the adherence of BVDV to embryos and to unfertile and degenerated ova, as determined by virus isolation and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay. In addition, a normal, BVDV antibody seronegative and BVDV-negative calf was born following transfer from a PI donor to a seronegative recipient.


pmid: 12784555
title: [Heterogeneity of ruminant pestiviruses: academic interest or important basis for the development of vaccines and diagnostics?]
abstract: Pestiviruses cause economically important diseases of farm animals. Members of the Pestiviruses are bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1), BVDV-2, classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and border disease virus (BDV). Phylogenetic analyses based on the entire nucleic acid sequence encoding the Npro allow a statistically significant segregation of established species and of subgroups within the species. BVDV-1 strains isolated in Germany can be associated with at least five different subgroups. In contrast all BVDV-2 isolates detected in Germany so far are closely related, belonging to one subgroup. A group of virus isolates from sheep and zoo animals is clearly different from established pestivirus species and can be designated as BDV-2. Antigenetic relatedness of pestiviruses was studied using defined virus isolates and antisera in cross-neutralization assays. Six antigenic groups were distinguished corresponding to the genetic clusters BVDV-1, BVDV-2, CSFV, BDV-1, BDV-2 and Giraffe-1. A significant antigenic difference was also observed between members of subgroups 1a and 1b of BVDV-1. Studies on the genetic and antigenic heterogeneity of pestiviruses are important for the development of new vaccines, diagnostic tests and for eradication programs.


pmid: 3434896
title: Molecular specificity of the antibody responses of cattle naturally and experimentally infected with cytopathic and noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus biotypes
abstract: The specificity of the humoral IgG response of cattle naturally or experimentally infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was studied by radioimmunoprecipitation. Serum samples were tested against radiolabeled lysates of cells infected with cytopathic and noncytopathic biotypes of BVDV. A biotype-specific serologic marker was not detected. The specificity of the IgG induced in cows naturally or experimentally infected with either BVDV biotype was essentially the same. A strong IgG response to the 2 glycoproteins (56 to 58 kilodaltons, [kD] and 48 kD) of both biotypes and to the major polypeptides was induced in infected cells: 118 kD and 80 kD by cytopathic BVDV and only 118 kD by noncytopathic BVDV. The most consistent difference among cattle was the presence of IgG specific for the 37-kD polypeptide. Sequential serum sample collection after spontaneous and induced infections with either BVDV biotype did not indicate specific IgG markers for determining infection history. Sera from cattle with a confirmed diagnosis of mucosal disease and lacking neutralizing antibodies to BVDV usually lacked (greater than 80%) nonneutralizing BVDV-specific IgG. One animal had substantial amounts of IgG to the 80-kD polypeptide. Other cattle had less readily detectable amounts of IgG specific for 80-kD or 37-kD viral polypeptides.


pmid: 2168687
title: Characterization of a panel of monoclonal antibodies and their use in the study of the antigenic diversity of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: A panel of 40 monoclonal antibodies (MAb) specific for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was produced, and each MAb was characterized and grouped according to its viral protein specificity, immunoglobulin subclass, virus-neutralizing activity, and immunoreactivity with a large collection of BVDV isolates. The MAb were found to be specific for 1 of 3 sets of related viral-induced proteins found in cells infected with the Singer strain of BVDV. Group-1 MAb were specific for the 80- and 118-kilodalton (kD) proteins of BVDV. Group-2 MAb recognized 3 proteins with molecular sizes of 54, 56, and 58 kD. Group-3 MAb recognized a 43- and a 65-kD protein. The MAb belonged to either the IgG1, IgG2a, IgG2b, IgG3 subclasses or the IgE class of mouse immunoglobulin. All MAb in group 2 were able to neutralize BVDV and had neutralization titers that ranged from 24 to 1,600,000. The reactivity of the MAb with numerous field isolates of BVDV was highly variable. Both cytopathic and noncytopathic biotypes of BVDV were examined and had the same degree of antigenic variation. The greatest degree of variation was detected with group-2 MAb. The data demonstrate that BVDV isolates have a high degree of antigenic variation that is largely confined to the envelope glycoproteins associated with virus neutralization. The results also suggest that antigenic variability of this virus is important in the development and severity of the disease it causes.


pmid: 9210935
title: Congenital curly haircoat as a symptom of persistent infection with bovine virus diarrhoea virus in calves
abstract: Ten calves were born small and with a curly haircoat in a dairy herd which comprised approximately 185 milking animals. These calves commonly developed diarrhoea and/or signs of respiratory disease at the age of 2 to 4 weeks. Two of the calves died and 5 were chronically ill and poor doers and were therefore euthanized. This susceptibility to disease of the curly haired calves was quite different from what was observed among other calves in the herd. Sera from seven of the curly haired calves were examined and were all found to be free from detectable antibodies to bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and to harbour a non-cytopathic strain of BVDV. One of the calves was retested after 7 weeks and was still seronegative and viraemic. Of 49 non-curly haired calves examined in the herd 44 were BVDV seropositive. The other 5 were seronegative to BVDV but attempts to isolate BVDV from their sera failed.


pmid: 10195615
title: Production of a highly immunogenic subunit ISCOM vaccine against Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus
abstract: Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) is a major pathogen of cattle in most countries. The main reservoir of virus in herds are BVDV persistently infected animals, which arise as a result of infection of the bovine fetus early in gestation. The spread of virus to the unborn fetus may be prevented by vaccination of the dam. We describe in this report the production and initial testing of an inactivated subunit vaccine against BVDV. The vaccine is based on production of antigen in primary bovine cell cultures, extraction of antigens from infected cells with detergent, chromatographic purification, concentration, and insertion of antigens into immune stimulating complexes (ISCOMs). Vaccines based on two different Danish strains of BVDV were injected into calves and the antisera produced were tested for neutralising activity against a panel of Danish BVDV strains. The two vaccines induced different neutralisation responses, which seem to partly complement each other. The implication of these observations for successful vaccination against BVDV is discussed.


pmid: 1648800
title: [Use of monoclonal antibodies for the differential diagnosis of pestivirus infections in swine]
abstract: Monoclonal antibodies (mab) specific for hog cholera virus (HCV), bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) or pestivirus were applied for the differential diagnosis of pestivirus infections in pigs. Field virus isolated from 8 confirmed classical swine fever outbreaks and one suspect case was propagated in PK(15) cell cultures and identified by direct immunofluorescence (IFA) and peroxidase linked antibody (PLA) assays. Peroxidase-linked HCV, BVDV and pestivirus specific mab were applied in direct PLA for differentiation. Nine isolates were classified as members of the genus pestivirus. Eight isolates showed a positive reaction with an HCV mab. One isolates reacted with BVDV specific mab only. For further characterization an indirect PLA was performed using a collection of different HCV and BVDV specific mabs. Some of the HCV isolates also showed a weak reaction with BVDV specific mab.


pmid: 2848298
title: Natural infections of pigs with bovine viral diarrhoea virus associated with signs resembling swine fever
abstract: Between 1976 and 1985 while using immunofluorescence in the laboratory diagnosis of swine fever (SF), 13 incidents of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection were detected in the Netherlands. Ultimate differentiation between swine fever virus (SFV) and BVDV was based on herd evidence supported by comparative antibody studies on sera from pigs inoculated with the isolate and from contact pigs in the herd of origin, using reference strains of SFV and BVDV. Recently differentiation of SFV and BVDV has been facilitated by typing the isolates with monoclonal antibodies. Signs suspicious of SF were observed in pigs two to 16 weeks old and were always confined to animals of one litter. In most cases the affected litter died out gradually although once an animal recovered. Stillbirth and neonatal death as well as the late onset of disease and its limitation to a single litter in a herd suggested a congenital route of infection. Although transplacental infection of BVDV in pigs has been reported before, these cases are believed to be the first in which natural BVDV infections could be associated with clinical signs and pathological lesions indistinguishable from those observed in chronic SF.


pmid: 1665632
title: Clinical, post mortem and virological findings after simultaneous inoculation of pigs with hog cholera and bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: The clinical course, post mortem lesions as well as virological and serological results after simultaneous intranasal inoculation of pigs with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and hog cholera virus (HCV) are described. Five groups of four weaners received constant doses of BVDV strain OSLOSS/2482 and tenfold decreasing doses of HCV strain ALFORT/187. Doses of 1,000 and 100 TCID50 of HCV in groups A and B of pigs led to fever and severe clinical signs in all animals of two groups, whereas at higher dilution of inoculum two, three or four animals survived without any clinical signs in the respective groups (C-E). Leucocyte samples taken from febrile animals and from normal pigs on five consecutive days were inoculated into both fetal calf kidney (FCK) and PK (15) cell cultures. Virus isolates were differentiated with BVDV and HCV specific monoclonal antibodies. HCV viraemia was detected in febrile animals exclusively, and BVDV viraemia occurred in not affected animals on days 3 to 7 post inoculation. Neutralizing antibodies (nab) against BVDV appeared before HCV nab in surviving animals of groups C and D after receiving low doses of HCV (10 or 1 TCID50). No BVDV nab were detected in group E that had received such a high dilution of HCV in addition to BVDV that theoretically no HCV was applied.


pmid: 2985526
title: Isolation of cytopathic and noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus from the spleen of cattle acutely and chronically affected with bovine viral diarrhea
abstract: Both cytopathic and noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were isolated from 16 of 17 bovine spleens representing 11 herds that had experienced acute BVD and from 12 of 21 bovine spleens from 1 herd affected with chronic BVD. It was concluded that isolation of cytopathic and noncytopathic BVDV from the same spleen probably indicates that an animal with a persistent, noncytopathic BVDV infection was superinfected with a cytopathic BVDV. The prevalence (greater than 70%) of 2 viruses in the spleen of cattle with acute or chronic BVD suggested that persistent infection with noncytopathic BVDV may be an important factor in the pathogenesis of BVD.


pmid: 9541623
title: The replicative intermediate molecule of bovine viral diarrhoea virus contains multiple nascent strands
abstract: The replication of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) RNA is considered to involve replicative intermediates (RI) and replicative forms (RF) of virus RNA. These RNA species were radiolabelled metabolically by 3H-uridine in BVDV-infected cells and separated by sucrose gradient centrifugation. RNA in the fractions was then digested with RNase A in high salt (2 x SSC) and the RNase-resistance was determined. Using the Baltimore formula, this led to the calculation that the RI of BVDV contained 6-7 nascent strands on the template. This suggests that the structure of the BVDV RI is similar to that of poliovirus and dengue 2 virus.


pmid: 8519897
title: Enhanced replication of orbiviruses in bovine testicle cells infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Bovine testicle (BT) cells infected with non-cytopathogenic (NCP) bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) developed cytopathogenic effect (CPE) after superinfection with 7 Orbiviruses, whereas no CPE was induced by them in the absence of NCP BVDV infection. The CPE was accompanied by the enhanced replication of Orbiviruses. Seven of 10 strains of NCP BVDV induced the enhanced replication of Ibaraki virus, a member of Orbivirus. These 7 strains of NCP BVDV were END phenomenon positive. In contrast, the absence of CPE and the suppression of growth of Ibaraki virus were seen in BT cells infected with the other 3 strains which were END phenomenon negative. The END phenomenon negative viruses were different markedly from the END phenomenon positive viruses with respect to interactions with Orbivirus. The mechanism of the enhanced replication of Orbivirus seems to be explained with the suppression by the END phenomenon positive NCP BVDV to the interferon production of Orbivirus in BT cells.


pmid: 1656821
title: Monitoring bovine viral diarrhea virus vaccines for adventitious virus, using T1 ribonuclease viral RNA oligonucleotide fingerprinting
abstract: Viral RNA oligonucleotide fingerprinting was used to discriminate 3 cytopathic vaccine bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) grown in medium supplemented with serum contaminated with noncytopathic BVDV from the same 3 viruses grown in cell culture free of BVDV. Oligonucleotide fingerprinting also effectively discriminated between reference Singer BVDV, NADL BVDV, and New York-1 BVDV grown in BVDV-free noncontaminated or BVDV-contaminated cell cultures. Oligonucleotide fingerprint mapping of viral RNA maybe used to determine the purity of virus stocks, as well as that of BVDV vaccines.


pmid: 14614275
title: Tissue distribution of bovine viral diarrhea virus antigens in persistently infected cattle
abstract: The tissue distribution and cellular localization of viral antigens in three cattle with persistent bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection was studied. In three cases, necropsy findings of oral ulcers, abmasal ulcers and necrosis of Peyer's patches were suspected have been caused by BVDV infection. Non-cytopathic BVDV was isolated from a tissue pool of liver, kidneys and spleen. Immunohistochemical detection of BVDV showed that BVDV antigens were detected in both epithelial and nonepithelial cells in all examined organs, including the gastrointestinal tract, liver, pancreas, lung, lymphatic organs (spleen, lymph nodes), adrenal gland, ovary, uterus, and the mammary gland. These findings support the hypothesis that animals with persistent BVDV infection spread BVDV through all routes, and that infertility in BVDV infection is associated with the infection of BVDV in the ovaries and uteri.


pmid: 1665207
title: Hybridization analysis of genomic variability among isolates of bovine viral diarrhoea virus using cDNA probes
abstract: Genomic variability among 28 cytopathic and 37 non-cytopathic isolates of BVDV was evaluated using hybridization analysis. Total RNA, isolated from cell cultures infected with BVDV, was probed with each of three plasmids containing cDNA derived from the cytopathic BVDV-NADL isolate. The three cDNA plasmid probes represented about 40% of the BVDV-NADL genome. The probes originated from the 5' end of the viral genome, the region of the genome coding for the p80 polypeptide and the 3' end of the genome. Three temperatures, 63 degrees C, 53 degrees C and 43 degrees C, were used for hybridization and washing and allowed approximately 29%, 36%, and 43% mismatch, respectively. Fifteen of the BVD viral isolates differed by less than 29% from BVDV-NADL in all three of the regions probed. Seventeen of the BVD viral isolates differed between 36% and 43% from BVDV-NADL in all three of the regions probed. Ten viral isolates differed by more than 43% from BVDV-NADL in all the regions probed. The remaining viral isolates exhibited different levels of similarity to BVDV-NADL in the three areas probed.


pmid: 2986494
title: Severe clinical disease induced in cattle persistently infected with noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus by superinfection with cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Eight healthy cattle that were persistently infected with noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were inoculated with cell culture fluids that contained noncytopathic or cytopathic BVDV. A severe disease occurred after inoculation with cytopathic BVDV. The clinical signs, lesions, and immune response were consistent with those of clinical BVDV infections.


pmid: 9210942
title: Detection of persistent bovine viral diarrhea virus infections by DNA hybridization and polymerase chain reaction assay
abstract: The detection of persistent bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections in cattle by DNA dot blot hybridization was done with a cloned cDNA probe prepared from noncytopathic BVDV (strain NY-1). Due to the variability of specific hybridization results, detection of BVDV by primer-directed polymerase chain amplification was done. Primers were chosen within a reported area of sequence conservation and amino acid homology of Pestiviruses. The amplification region extended from nucleotide 6322 to 7475 and was based on published BVDV sequence data (NADL strain). BVDV RNA was extracted by two methods (proteinase K and guanidinium isothiocyanate) from serum and white blood cell preparations collected from 3 persistently-infected heifers. cDNA was synthesized from extracted BVDV-genomic RNA using reverse transcriptase. Reaction conditions were optimized to amplify the 1153 base pair fragment from the cDNA preparation. Detection of BVDV in the samples by DNA dot blot hybridization using a nucleic acid probe corresponding to the amplified region (6322 to 7475) was compared with polymerase chain reaction assay. The increased sensitivity of the polymerase chain reaction assay provided clearer identification of persistently-infected animals than DNA hybridization under similar conditions.


pmid: 1964772
title: Genetic comparison of ovine and bovine pestiviruses
abstract: Viral RNA oligonucleotide fingerprinting was used to compare genetic relationship among pestiviruses originating from ovine or bovine host species. Ovine pestiviruses, including reference border disease virus and 2 border disease isolates originating from natural pestivirus infections of sheep, appeared to have a more distant genetic relationship among themselves than with certain bovine pestiviruses. A closer genetic relatedness was evident between border disease virus and 3 noncytopathic bovine pestiviruses, including Draper bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a BVDV isolate that originated from aborted bovine fetuses, and a virus that was isolated from the serum of a calf that had a chronic BVDV infection. Four noncytopathic bovine viruses, including Draper BVDV and 3 field isolates, were closely related. Reference Oregon C24V BVDV, a cytopathic virus, was closely related to only 1 of the 7 noncytopathic viruses in this study.


pmid: 1334302
title: Distribution of bovine virus diarrhoea viral antigens in the central nervous system of cattle with various congenital manifestations
abstract: Distribution of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) antigens in the central nervous system (CNS) of 26 cattle persistently BVDV infected, 11 cattle with mucosal disease (MD), and 32 calves with congenital brain malformations was studied using monoclonal antibodies against BVDV epitopes. In persistently infected cattle and in cattle with MD, a widespread infection of neurons was present. Predilection sites for BVDV antigens were the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus. In calves with congenital encephalopathies, viral antigen-containing neurons could only be detected in the CNS of four animals. From the topographical distribution of BVDV antigens in these four postnatal cases with end-stage lesions, no conclusions could be drawn concerning the pathogenesis of BVDV-induced encephalopathies.


pmid: 2162096
title: In vitro production of antibodies to bovine virus diarrhoea virus by peripheral blood mononuclear cells from cattle immunized by infection
abstract: A method for in vitro production of antibodies to bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) by peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) was developed. The PBMC were cultured in microtitre plates coated with detergent-solubilized BVDV and the supernatants were tested in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay which detects IgG antibodies to BVDV. Following incubation of PBMC with an optimal concentration of pokeweed mitogen for 5 days, antibodies to BVDV were detected in culture supernatants of PBMC from immune cattle, but not in supernatants of PBMC from seronegative cattle, from persistently BVDV-infected cattle or from a 5-day-old calf that received BVDV antibodies via colostrum. This antibody-production assay may therefore be used as a tool to discriminate between passively acquired antibodies and those actively induced.


pmid: 9646556
title: [Clinical-virologic course after superinfection of persistently infected cattle with cytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus strains]
abstract: Vaccination with live cytopathogenic (cp) bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is often used for control of this disease. In animals which are persistently infected with noncytopathogenic (ncp) BVDV this can lead to the outbreak of mucosal disease (MD). To simulate vaccination of such animals and to monitor the clinical-virological course after superinfection, nine clinically healthy calves which were persistently viremic were superinfected with different cp BVDV strains. One animal succumbed to early onset MD within three weeks after superinfection. During the observation period of 18 months four animals developed severe clinical signs. While two animals developed late onset MD, the other two had to be euthanized due to clinical signs which could not be related to the superinfecting BVDV. These results indicated that after superinfection or vaccination of persistently infected calves with cp BVDV the probability of developing early and/or late onset MD is significantly increased. The risks arising from uncritical vaccination of herds with unknown virological status in relation with the control of BVDV conforming to the actual official guidelines are discussed.


pmid: 9445784
title: [Immunohistochemical studies on organ tropism of different biotypes of BVD virus in experimentally infected sheep fetuses]
abstract: Paraffin sections from various organs of sheep fetuses following transplacental infection with non-cytopathogenic (ncp) bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) or cytopathogenic (cp) BVDV were stained immunohistochemically with BVDV-specific monoclonal antibodies. Comparison of the distribution of viral antigen in sections from fetuses of experiment A revealed that in organs such as parotid, thyroid, thymus, lung, spleen, kidney, liver and skin from 20 days post inoculation (p.i.) onwards numerous antigen-containing cells were present. In organs of fetuses infected with cp BVDV, however, antigen-positive cells were only detectable until days 10 and 14 p.i. These findings suggest that the ncp BVDV used in experiment A replicated considerably faster and more efficient than the cp BVDV used in experiment B and that the two virus biotypes differ considerably concerning their tropism for fetal ovine organs.


pmid: 2838577
title: Influence of interferons alpha I1 and gamma and of tumour necrosis factor on persistent infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus in vitro
abstract: Non-cytopathic strains of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) readily establish persistent infections in cells of bovine origin. The involvement of endogenous interferon (IFN) on the maintenance of the infection level, as well as the effect of exogenous IFN and tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), was studied. Although exogenous IFN suppressed the spread and replication of virus, it did not cure the infection, even when continuously present over many cell passages. TNF-alpha alone had no antiviral effect in this system. However, both TNF-alpha and IFN enhanced the cytopathic effect of cytopathic BVDV, and induced a BVDV-like cytopathic effect in cells infected with non-cytopathic BVDV. These data are discussed with regard to possible mechanisms of pathogenesis during fatal BVDV disease in cattle.


pmid: 8011781
title: Evaluation of PCR for diagnosis of bovine viral diarrhea virus in tissue homogenates
abstract: Tissue homogenates from 60 specimens submitted to the Veterinary Diagnostic Center were evaluated by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Conventional virus isolation procedures showed the specimens contained BVDV. The BVDV RNA was extracted from the homogenates and subjected to a reverse transcription reaction followed by PCR amplification. The PCR product was blotted onto a nylon membrane and hybridized with a 30-base pair oligonucleotide probe labeled with 32P. One set of PCR primers detected BVDV in 46/60 (77%) of the tissue homogenates. An additional set of primers was used to detect 10/11 samples that had escaped detection with the first set of primers. The results indicate that BVDV can be detected by PCR directly out of tissue homogenates generated in a diagnostic setting.


pmid: 24708266
title: Experimental infection of pregnant goats with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) 1 or 2
abstract: Infections with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) of the genus pestivirus, family Flaviviridae, are not limited to cattle but occur in various artiodactyls. Persistently infected (PI) cattle are the main source of BVDV. Persistent infections also occur in heterologous hosts such as sheep and deer. BVDV infections of goats commonly result in reproductive disease, but viable PI goats are rare. Using 2 BVDV isolates, previously demonstrated to cause PI cattle and white-tailed deer, this study evaluated the outcome of experimental infection of pregnant goats. Pregnant goats (5 goats/group) were intranasally inoculated with BVDV 1b AU526 (group 1) or BVDV 2 PA131 (group 2) at approximately 25-35 days of gestation. The outcome of infection varied considerably between groups. In group 1, only 3 does became viremic, and 1 doe gave birth to a stillborn fetus and a viable PI kid, which appeared healthy and shed BVDV continuously. In group 2, all does became viremic, 4/5 does aborted, and 1 doe gave birth to a non-viable PI kid. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated BVDV antigen in tissues of evaluated fetuses, with similar distribution but reduced intensity as compared to cattle. The genetic sequence of inoculated viruses was compared to those from PI kids and their dam. Most nucleotide changes in group 1 were present during the dam's acute infection. In group 2, a similar number of mutations resulted from fetal infection as from maternal acute infection. Results demonstrated that BVDV may cause reproductive disease but may also be maintained in goats.


pmid: 26996785
title: Distribution pattern of bovine viral diarrhoea virus type 1 genome in lymphoid tissues of experimentally infected sheep
abstract: In this study, cellular localization and the distribution pattern of BVDV genome in lymphoid tissues during the course of experimental acute BVDV-1 infection of sheep was investigated. Tonsils, mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN) and spleen were collected on 3, 6, 9, 12 and 15 days post infection (dpi) from twenty 4-month-old lambs, experimentally inoculated intra-nasally with 5 × 10(5) TCID50 of a non-cytopathic (ncp) BVDV-1 isolate, Ind-17555. Tissues collected from ten mock-infected lambs served as controls. In situ hybridization (ISH) was carried out in paraformaldehyde fixed paraffin embedded tissue sections using digoxigenin labelled riboprobe targeting 5'-UTR of BVDV-1. BVDV genome was detected at all the intervals from 3 dpi to 15 dpi in the lymphoid tissues with variations between the intervals and also amongst the infected sheep. During the early phase of acute infection, presence of viral genome was more in tonsils than MLN and spleen, whereas the distribution was higher in MLN during later stages. BVDV-1 genome positive cells included lymphocytes, macrophages, plasma cells, reticular cells and sometimes crypt epithelial cells. Genome distribution was frequently observed in the lymphoid follicles of tonsils, MLN and spleen, besides the crypt epithelium in tonsils, paracortex and medullary sinus and cords of MLN. Most abundant and widespread distribution of BVDV-1 genome was observed on 6 dpi while there was a reduction in number and intensity of positive signals by 15 dpi in most of the infected animals. This is the first attempt made to study the localisation of BVDV-1 in lymphoid tissues of acutely infected sheep by in situ hybridization. The results show that the kinetics of BVDV-1 distribution in lymphoid tissues of experimentally infected non-pregnant sheep follows almost a similar pattern to that demonstrated in BVDV infected cattle.


pmid: 9631528
title: Persistent bovine pestivirus infection localized in the testes of an immuno-competent, non-viraemic bull
abstract: A post-pubertal bull on an artificial insemination station was found to be persistently shedding bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in semen over a period of eleven months, while demonstrating no viraemia. Circulating antibodies to BVDV were consistently high, suggesting that the immune system was challenged repeatedly. Post-mortem findings confirmed that the virus was sequestered in the testes of the bull. It is hypothesized that the BVDV in this immuno-competent bull was protected from the bull's immune response by the blood-testes barrier. The barrier becomes functional only at puberty when tight junctions form between adjacent Sertoli cells, suggesting that this bull became persistently infected with BVDV during puberty.


pmid: 2549680
title: Comparative analysis of monoclonal antibodies against pestiviruses: report of an international workshop
abstract: Thirty-three pestivirus strains were grown in cell culture and characterized by immunostaining with 19 monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) raised against hog cholera virus (HCV), with 42 MAbs against bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and with 13 MAbs against border disease virus (BDV). Seven MAbs reacted with all pestivirus strains tested, eight MAbs detected only the seven HCV strains, three detected only the 16 BVDV strains. No MAb was found that was specific for BDV. BVDV and BDV strains were broadly cross-reactive with the MAbs, indicating a close relationship between these two species, whereas HCV strains were characterized as distinct from BVDV and BDV.


pmid: 222243
title: Detection of three polypeptides in preparations of bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Radiolabelled bovine viral diarrhoea/mucosal disease virus (BVDV) strains NADL and Oregon C24V were purified by different steps. Following immunoprecipitation, electrophoresis in SDS-polyacrylamide gels revealed three BVDV structural polypeptides with molecular weights of 57 (VP1), 44 (VP2), and 34 (VP3) kd. The two larger BVDV polypeptides VP1 and VP2 were found to be glycosylated (gp57, gp44). The data obtained on BVDV structural proteins demonstrate common features with hog cholera virus and indicate a common grouping with the family Togaviridae.


pmid: 19349070
title: Experimental risk assessment of bovine viral diarrhea virus transmission via in vitro embryo production using somatic cell nucleus transfer
abstract: The objective of this study was to perform a comprehensive risk assessment on infectious disease transmission in the system of in vitro embryo production via somatic cell nucleus transfer (SCNT) technology using bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) as a model. The risks of BVDV transmission in each step of the SCNT embryo production procedure, from donor cells to preimplantation SCNT embryo culture, were carefully examined using a sensitive real-time polymerase chain reaction assay. The identified primary source of BVDV transmission in SCNT embryo production was donor cell infection, most likely caused by contaminated fetal bovine serum in the culture medium. The risk of disease transmission through contaminated oocytes from an abattoir was relatively low, and it can be greatly minimized by cumulus cell removal and adequate oocyte washing procedures. Of the 200 cumulus-oocyte complexes (COCs) and more than 1500 cumulus cell-free oocyte (CFO) samples collected from multiple sources over a course of 7 months, only 2.5% of the COCs were BVDV positive, and all of the CFOs (100%) were BVDV negative. To evaluate the risk of BVDV introduction during in vitro SCNT embryo culture, 324 SCNT embryos were produced from 18 different cell lines using oocytes from 26 different batches collected over a course of 9 months. The embryos were cultured in vitro for 7 days and then tested for BVDV. All of the 324 SCNT embryos (100%) were negative, indicating that the embryo culture system is virtually risk-free for BVDV transmission. Based on these results, a standard operational protocol (SOP) for SCNT embryo production was proposed to greatly minimize the risk of BVDV transmission through the SCNT embryo production system. This SOP could be a starting point to produce a SCNT system that is virtually risk-free for disease transmission in general.


pmid: 34563649
title: Genomic diversity and phylodynamic of bovine viral diarrhea virus in Argentina
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an important pathogen of ruminants worldwide and is characterized by high genetic diversity and a wide range of clinical presentations. In Argentina, several studies have evaluated the genetic diversity of BVDV but no phylodynamic study has been published yet. In this study, a comprehensive compilation and update of Argentinean BVDV sequences were performed, and the evolutionary history of BVDV was characterized by phylodynamic analyses based on the 5´UTR. Although BVDV-1b and BVDV-1a were the most frequent subtypes, novel subtypes for Argentina, 1e and 1i, were identified. The phylodynamic analysis suggested that BVDV started its diversification in the mid-1650s with an exponential increase in viral diversity since the late 1990s, possibly related to the livestock expansion and intensification in the country. Evolutionary rate in the 5´UTR was faster for BVDV-1a than for BVDV-1b, and both subtypes presented an endemic nature according to the demographic reconstructions. The current study contributes to clarify the evolutionary history of BVDV in the main cattle region of the country and provides useful information about the epidemiology and future development of diagnostic and control tools in Argentina.


pmid: 19578292
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 infection activates the unfolded protein response in MDBK cells, leading to apoptosis
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 (BVDV-2) strains are divided into cytopathic and non-cytopathic biotypes based on the ablity to induce cytopathic effects in cultured cells. The mechanism of cytopathogenicity of BVDV-2 is not well understood. We examined cytopathogenesis in MDBK cells resulting from BVDV-2 infections by microscopic examinations and microarray analysis. We found that BVDV-2 activates endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress signaling pathways that contribute to apoptosis of infected cells. We also monitored the expression of ER stress marker gene by RT-PCR during BVDV-2 infection and demonstrated that infection of MDBK cells with a cytopathic strain of BVDV-2 induces glucose-regulated protein 78 expression. Infection with BVDV-2 also induces DNA-damage-inducible transcript 3 expression and downregulates the lectin-galactoside-binding soluble 1 level. These results show that cytopathic strains of BVDV-2 induce an ER stress response resulting in apoptosis.


pmid: 12968732
title: Experimental model of type II bovine viral diarrhea virus-induced thrombocytopenia in neonatal calves
abstract: Thrombocytopenia has been associated with type II bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in immunocompetent cattle, but the mechanism is unknown. The purpose of the present study was to develop and characterize a model of type II BVDV-induced thrombocytopenia. Colostrum-deprived Holstein calves were obtained immediately after birth, given a BVDV-negative and BVDV antibody-negative plasma transfusion, housed in an isolation facility, and randomly assigned to either control (n = 4) or infected (n = 5) groups. Infected calves were inoculated by intranasal instillation on day 3 of age with 10(7) TCID50 of the prototype type II isolate, BVDV 890, whereas control calves were sham inoculated. Blood counts and virus isolations from serum, white blood cells, and platelets were performed daily until day 12 after infection, at which time all experimental calves were euthanatized, and pathologic, virologic, and immunohistochemical examinations were performed. On physical examination, the control calves remained normal, but the infected calves developed pyrexia and diarrhea characteristic of type II BVDV infection. The platelet count decreased in all infected calves, and a statistically significant difference in the platelet count between control and infected calves was observed on days 7-12 after infection. In addition, the mean platelet volume and white blood cell counts also decreased. Examination of the bone marrow from the infected calves revealed immunohistochemical staining for BVDV antigen in megakaryocytes and evidence of concurrent megakaryocyte necrosis and hyperplasia.


pmid: 12071892
title: Insemination of susceptible heifers with semen from a non-viraemic bull with persistent bovine virus diarrhoea virus infection localized in the testes
abstract: Bulls shedding bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in semen and simultaneously having a high concentration of circulating antibodies may cause reproductive problems and spread the viral infection within cattle populations. To investigate this in detail, three heifers were inseminated with BVDV-infected semen from a non-viraemic, seropositive Holstein-Friesian bull, named 'Cumulus'. One control heifer was inseminated with semen from a healthy bull that was free of BVDV. All four heifers remained clinically healthy throughout the experiment. The conception succeeded in the control animal and in two of the three heifers inseminated with semen containing BVDV. The heifer with the failed conception was the only one that became systemically infected with BVDV. This animal was deemed non-pregnant by ultrasonic examination on day 34 after insemination and showed no signs of subsequent oestrus during the entire experimental period. At slaughter, 42 days after insemination, there were no histopathological changes in the ovaries and virus was not detected in ovarian tissue. The fact that seronegative dams served with semen from persistently infected bulls have occasionally produced persistently infected calves together with the present findings and the fact that non-viraemic, seropositive bulls can constantly shed BVDV, suggest that the use of semen from such bulls in BVDV-free herds could have far-reaching consequences, especially if it led to the birth of persistently infected (P1) calves.


pmid: 2154423
title: Thrombocytopenia and hemorrhages in veal calves infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The relationship between bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection and thrombocytopenia was studied in 18 veal calves experimentally infected with BVDV. All calves were free of BVDV, and 13 calves were free of serum neutralizing antibodies to BVDV before virus inoculation. Calves were inoculated at approximately 10 days of age, and platelet counts were monitored over a period of several weeks. Ten additional calves housed in close proximity were kept as uninoculated controls. A profound decrease in platelet counts by 3 to 11 days after inoculation was seen in all calves that had neutralizing antibody titers less than 1:32 before infection. Severe thrombocytopenia (less than 5,000 platelets/microliter) was seen in 12 calves, 11 of which also developed hemorrhages. Necropsy findings in 3 severely thrombocytopenic calves that died included multiple hemorrhages throughout the body. Calves that recovered had increased platelet counts, and in most instances, a corresponding increase in neutralizing antibody titers to BVDV. At 11 days after inoculation, BVDV was detected on platelets by use of immunofluorescence, but evidence of surface-bound immunoglobulin was not found. The results suggest that a nonimmunoglobulin-mediated method of platelet destruction or sequestration develops as a sequela to BVDV infection.


pmid: 17370574
title: Detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus by amplification on polycation-treated cells followed by enzyme immunoassay
abstract: A bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) amplification method combined with an enzyme immunoassay was developed to detect BVDV antigens in seropositive cattle. Reconstitution assays conducted by adding decreasing amounts of BVDV (Singer strain) to Madin-Darby bovine kidney (MDBK) cells showed that the sensitivity threshold of the combined assay was 10(-7) TCID50. BVDV amplification was carried out in polycation (DEAE-Dextran and polybrene)-treated MDBK cells. Treated cells were able to replicate both ether-treated virus and neutralizing antibody-coated virus. Ammonium chloride decreased virus replication in polycation-treated cells, suggesting viral penetration by endocytosis. BVDV detection was tested in leukocytes from 104 seropositive cattle from 2 unvaccinated commercial closed dairy herds with high seroprevalence. Lysates and co-cultures of peripheral blood leukocytes (PBL) were tested, directly or after up to 6 blind passages in normal or polycation-treated cells. BVDV was detected in 10/104 cattle after only one co-culture of PBL in treated cells. No virus was detected in whole blood or plasma samples. BVDV positive and negative cattle were retested three times, achieving consistent results. The finding of immune carriers supports the possibility that these animals may constitute an epidemiological risk.


pmid: 16194578
title: Modulation of PKR activity in cells infected by bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus is an important animal pathogen. The cytopathic and noncytopathic biotypes of the virus are associated with distinct pathologic entities. A striking difference between the two biotypes is viral RNA accumulation in infected cells. Viral dsRNA is thought to activate protein kinase PKR; an important mediator of innate immunity. In this study, we investigated PKR activation and its consequences in BVDV-infected cells. Infection with cp BVDV was found to induce PKR activation, eIF2alpha phosphorylation, translation inhibition and NF-kappaB activation. In contrast, PKR activity and eIF2alpha phosphorylation were not induced during infection with the ncp BVDV. In addition, cells infected with ncp BVDV showed no PKR phosphorylation in response to infection with the unrelated poliovirus whereas uninfected ncp BVDV cells when infected with poliovirus showed high levels of phosphorylated PKR. Cells infected with ncp BVDV failed to respond to synthetic dsRNA (poly I:C) treatment with NF-kappaB activation. However, the NF-kappaB response to bacterial lipopolysaccarides (LPS) was normal in these cells, suggesting a specific suppression of antiviral response signaling in ncp BVDV infected cells. These results indicate that ncp BVDV has evolved specific mechanisms to prevent activation of PKR and its antiviral effectors, most likely to facilitate the establishment and maintenance of persistent infection.


pmid: 10028171
title: Vaccination of cattle against bovine viral diarrhoea
abstract: This brief review describes types and quality (efficacy and safety) of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) vaccines that are in the market or under development. Both conventional live and killed vaccines are available. The primary aim of vaccination is to prevent congenital infection, but the few vaccines tested are not highly efficacious in this respect, as shown in vaccination-challenge experiments. Vaccination to prevent severe postnatal infections may be indicated when virulent BVDV strains are prevalent. Live BVDV vaccines have given rise to safety problems. A complication for the development of BVDV vaccines is the wide antigenic diversity among wild-type BVDV. There is ample room for improvement of both the efficacy and safety of BVDV vaccines, and it may be expected that better vaccines, among which marker vaccines, will be launched in the future.


pmid: 29260489
title: Virus neutralization technique as a tool to evaluate the virological profile for bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in dairy water buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) herds
abstract: Serological evidence shows that the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections are present in Brazilian dairy and beef water buffalo herds. As few reports describe the BVDV infection profile the aim of this study was to evaluate the dynamics of BVDV circulation in Brazilian dairy water buffalo herds through analysis of the seropositivity rate and the titer range of anti-BVDV neutralizing antibodies in a group of animals that are considered sentinels. Blood samples (n = 305) were obtained from unvaccinated, asymptomatic young water buffalos from four dairy herds randomly identified as A (n = 106), B (n = 62), C (n = 119), and D (n = 18). The detection and titration of anti-BVDV neutralizing antibodies were evaluated by the virus neutralization test according to the World Organization for Animal Health. Analysis of the results revealed two distinct epidemiological conditions. The first is represented by herds A and C where high rates of seropositive animals (A = 39.6%; C = 51.3%) and high and very variable antibodies titers suggested active BVDV infection. The other condition is represented by herds B and D with low rates of seropositive animals (B = 8.1%; D = 11.1%) and low and little variable antibodies titers suggesting an epidemiological condition of infection stability. Some variables were observed in herds with a distinct BVDV infection profile. Herds with active infection were big, open herds, and had more management practices. In contrast, the herds with infection stability were small, closed herds with few management practices. These results highlight the importance of evaluation, monitoring, and control of BVDV infection also in dairy water buffalo herds.


pmid: 34550482
title: Seroprevalence and association of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) serostatus with reproductive problems in dairy cattle in central and southern Ethiopia
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) is an economically important cattle disease with worldwide distribution and characterized mainly by suboptimal fertility in the affected herds. The objectives of this study were to estimate the seroprevalence of BVDV within dairy cattle, to identify potential risk factors, and to assess the association with occurrence of reproductive problems. Sera (n = 954) collected from dairy cattle from 98 herds in southern and central Ethiopia were tested for BVDV antibodies using a commercial ELISA. Among screened sera samples, 20.9% (95% CI, 18.4, 23.6) tested positive to BVDV antibodies. The herd prevalence was 50% (95% CI, 40.1, 59.9) and the intra-herd prevalence ranged between 2.6 and 100% (mean = 31.4%) in positive herds. Geographic region, herd size, and animal arrangement in the farm had significant association with serostatus (p < 0.05). Cattle from southern Ethiopia and herds of large size had 2.8 (95% CI, 1.9, 4.2) and 2.6 (95% CI, 1.5, 4.6) times higher odds of being seropositive compared to their counterparts, respectively. Serostatus to BVDV was associated with history of anestrus, repeat breeding (RB), mastitis, and extended calving interval (CI) (p < 0.05). Animals with history of extended CI and mastitis were 1.7 (95% CI, 1.0, 2.7) and 2.2 (95% CI, 1.5, 3.2) times more likely to be seropositive compared with those with normal CI and no history of mastitis, respectively. On the other hand, animals with history of anestrus and RB were less likely to be seropositive to BVDV compared to cattle with no such history. Sera from 26 selected cattle were also examined using reverse transcription (RT)-PCR for detection of BVDV RNA; however, all samples tested were negative for the presence of BVDV nucleic acid. Our study highlights the variation in BVDV status within Ethiopian dairy herds, and association with some important reproductive performance traits and potential risk factors.


pmid: 28992914
title: A quantitative risk-analysis for introduction of Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus in the Netherlands through cattle imports
abstract: Many countries have implemented control programmes aiming to eradicate Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV). After obtaining the free status, a risk of re-introduction of the virus through import may remain. Therefore the risk of introduction of BVDV through cattle imports in the Netherlands was quantified and the effectiveness of subsequent intervention measures was assessed. Data, literature and expert opinion were used to estimate values for input parameters to feed a stochastic simulation model. The probability that BVDV was imported was differentiated into persistently infected (PI) cattle, trojan cows that transmitted the virus vertically resulting in a PI foetus (TR) and transient infected cattle (TI). The import risk was stratified to beef, dairy, small scale, suckler, trade, veal and young stock herds. The intervention scenarios that were evaluated consisted of virus testing, a combination of virus testing and antibody testing in pregnant cows, abolishment of imports from high risk countries (i.e. countries with a BVDV prevalence >15%) and a combination of import restrictions and testing prior to import. Each year, 334 (5th and 95th percentile: 65-902) Dutch cattle herds were estimated to be infected with BVDV through import. Veal herds account for most infections associated with import (87%), whereas in the other herd types, only 9 beef, 6 dairy, 2 small scale, 16 suckler, 10 trade and 2 young stock herds are infected through imports per year. Import of PI cattle is the most important risk for introduction in veal herds, while import of TR cows is the main source of BVDV introduction in dairy, small scale and suckler herds. With the intervention scenarios, the number of BVDV infected herds in the Netherlands could be reduced to 81 and 58 herds per year when respectively virus testing or a combination of virus and antibody testing was applied or to 108 herds when import from high risk countries was abolished. With the scenario in which both import from high risk countries was abolished combined with virus and antibody testing, the number of BVDV infected herds could be reduced to 17 herds per year. The risk assessment showed that BVDV is regularly imported in the Netherlands. The import risk can effectively be reduced by implementing diagnostic testing prior to import and only import cattle with a favourable result, eventually combined with certain trade restrictions.


pmid: 11724267
title: Characterization of RNA synthesis and translation of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)
abstract: Full length and replicon genomes of various strains of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) have been characterized. Analysis of growth kinetics for a pair of cytopathogenic (cp) and noncytopathogenic (ncp) strains revealed that ncp strain synthesized viral RNA at much reduced level compared to the cp strain. Kinetics of translation and replication, the effects of bi-cistronic versus mono-cistronic genomes, and cis requirements for viral replication were also examined in a BVDV replicon D19c. Importantly, our results suggest a tight regulation and a switch from translation to replication, and demonstrated the cis requirements of NS4B and NS5A in replication.


pmid: 29941334
title: Detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus nucleic acid, but not infectious virus, in bovine serum used for human vaccine manufacture
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is a cattle pathogen that has previously been reported to be present in bovine raw materials used in the manufacture of biological products for human use. Seven lots of trivalent measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine and 1 lot of measles vaccine from the same manufacturer, together with 17 lots of foetal bovine serum (FBS) from different vendors, 4 lots of horse serum, 2 lots of bovine trypsin and 5 lots of porcine trypsin were analysed for BVDV using recently developed techniques, including PCR assays for BVDV detection, a qRT-PCR and immunofluorescence-based virus replication assays, and deep sequencing to identify and genotype BVDV genomes. All FBS lots and one lot of bovine-derived trypsin were PCR-positive for the presence of BVDV genome; in contrast all vaccine lots and the other samples were negative. qRT-PCR based virus replication assay and immunofluorescence-based infection assay detected no infectious BVDV in the PCR-positive samples. Complete BVDV genomes were generated from FBS samples by deep sequencing, and all were BVDV type 1. These data confirmed that BVDV nucleic acid may be present in bovine-derived raw materials, but no infectious virus or genomic RNA was detected in the final vaccine products.


pmid: 11105099
title: Production and characterization of monoclonal antibodies to Brazilian isolates of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Three Brazilian isolates of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), antigenically distinct from the standard North American isolates, were selected to immunize BALB/c mice in order to obtain hybridoma cells secreting anti-BVDV monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). Two hybridoma clones secreting mAbs, reacting specifically with BVDV-infected cells (mAbs 3.1C4 and 6.F11), were selected after five fusions and screening of 1001 hypoxanthine-aminopterin-thymidine-resistant clones. These mAbs reacted in an indirect fluorescent antibody (IFA) assay with all 39 South and North American BVDV field isolates and reference strains available in our laboratory, yet failed to recognize other pestiviruses, namely the hog cholera virus. The mAbs reacted at dilutions up to 1:25,600 (ascitic fluid) and 1:100 (hybridoma culture supernatant) in IFA and immunoperoxidase (IPX) staining of BVDV-infected cells but only mAb 3.1C4 neutralized virus infectivity. Furthermore, both mAbs failed to recognize BVDV proteins by IPX in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues and following SDS-PAGE and immunoblot analysis of virus-infected cells, suggesting they are probably directed to conformational-type epitopes. The protein specificity of these mAbs was then determined by IFA staining of CV-1 cells transiently expressing each of the BVDV proteins: mAb 3. 1C4 reacted with the structural protein E2/gp53 and mAb 6.F11 reacted with the structural protein E1/gp25. Both mAbs were shown to be of the IgG2a isotype. To our knowledge, these are the first mAbs produced against South American BVDV isolates and will certainly be useful for research and diagnostic purposes.


pmid: 21848041
title: [Bovine neonatal pancytopenia in German Holstein calves]
abstract: Profiles of blood cell counts were evaluated for 15 calves from three different farms. These calves showed petechia in the mucous membranes and in the skin and prolonged secondary bleeding after puncture. The clinical course of the disease could be observed in eleven calves. With exception of one case, the blood cell counts indicated a severe anaemia, leukocytopenia and thrombocytopenia. Out of these 15 calves, six calves survived and the other nine calves died or had to be euthanized due to the severity of the disease. Necropsy of these nine calves revealed petechia in the skin, subcutis, muscles, in inner organs and all serous membranes. Pathohistological examination showed a depletion of the bone marrow and lymphatic tissue in eight calves. These findings confirmed the diagnosis of bovine neonatal pancytopenia (BNP) for eight of these nine calves. Bluetongue virus serotype 8 was tested negatively using PCR. Bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was negatively tested using immunofluorescence and cell culture and salmonella species were negatively tested in seven dissected calves. A cluster of toxins was negatively tested in one of the dissected calves. All 15 calves had high antibody titres for BVDV. The BVDV-antibody titres from twelve dams with affected calves were positive in six cases and not detectable in the other six cases. In three of the six dams with not detectable BVDV-antibody titres, calves were fed with colostrum of a further dam with high BVDV-antibody titres. In the further three dams without detectable BVDV-antibody titres, we could not ascertain which colostrum has been fed to the calves. BVDV-specific antigen could not be detected in any of the samples from the calves and dams tested. Using the activity of the gamma-glutamyl-transferase, we assumed a sufficient supply with colostrum for the examined calves.The cause for the occurrence of these BNP cases was due to bone marrow depletion.The reason for the bone marrow depletion remained unclear. However, it was obvious that the BNP described here is highly likely caused by colostrum from cows with positive BVDV-antibody titres.


pmid: 17984260
title: Febrile response and decrease in circulating lymphocytes following acute infection of white-tailed deer fawns with either a BVDV1 or a BVDV2 strain
abstract: Although commonly associated with infection in cattle, bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) also replicate in many domestic and wildlife species, including cervids. Bovine viral diarrhea viruses have been isolated from a number of cervids, including mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), European roe deer (Capreolus capreolus), red deer (Cervus elaphus), white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), and mouse deer (Tragulus javanicus), but little information is available regarding clinical presentation and progression of infection in these species. In preliminary studies of experimental infection of deer with BVDV, researchers noted seroconversion but no clinical signs. In this study, we infected white-tailed deer fawns that were negative for BVDV and for antibodies against BVDV, with either a type 1 or a type 2 BVDV that had been isolated from white-tailed deer. Fawns were monitored for changes in basal temperature, circulating lymphocytes, and platelets. The clinical progression following inoculation in these fawns was similar to that seen with BVDV infections in cattle and included fever and depletion of circulating lymphocytes. Because free-ranging cervid populations are frequently in contact with domestic cattle in the United States, possible transfer of BVDV between cattle and cervids has significant implications for proposed BVDV control programs.


pmid: 28074709
title: A serosurvey for ruminant pestivirus exposure conducted using cattle sera collected for brucellosis surveillance in the United States
abstract: Four species of ruminant pestivirus are currently circulating in the United States: Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 and 2 (BVDV-1, -2; predominant host: cattle), Border disease virus (BDV; predominant host: sheep), and pronghorn virus (sporadically detected in wild ruminants). A third bovine pestivirus called HoBi-like virus has been detected in cattle and water buffalo in South America, Asia, and Europe. To date, no isolations of HoBi-like viruses from U.S. cattle have been reported. To assess exposure, 2,000 cattle sera, collected between 2014 and 2015 as part of the U.S. brucellosis surveillance program, were tested for antibodies against BVDV-1, BVDV-2, and HoBi-like viruses. In addition, RNA was extracted and tested by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction for the presence of pestiviruses; all samples tested negative. The percent of VN-positive samples was 91.3% for BVDV-1, 89.3% for BVDV-2, and 84.9% for HoBi-like viruses. Because the 3 bovine pestiviruses are antigenically cross-reactive, the comparative level of antibody against each pestivirus species was determined. Based on comparative titers, samples were segregated into 6 categories: no titers (7.6%), titers clearly higher against BVDV-1 (22.2%), titers substantially higher against BVDV-2 (9.1%), BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 titers equivalent but substantially higher than HoBi titers (25.7%), titers substantially higher against HoBi-like viruses (0%), and equivocal (35.4%). Titers tended to be higher against BVDV-1 than BVDV-2. However, the overall percentage of animals with titers below levels considered protective against acute bovine pestivirus infection were ~11% for BVDV-1, 12% BVDV-2, and 18% for HoBi-like virus.


pmid: 24461201
title: Evaluation of long-term antibody responses to two inactivated bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) vaccines
abstract: The aim of the present study was to determine the serological response of heifers after vaccination with two inactivated bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) vaccines by means of various ELISA tests. Three dairy farms were selected from the Galicia region of Spain. In each herd, a batch of heifers to be vaccinated for the first time was selected and followed for 15 months. Heifers from farm 1 (n=25) were vaccinated with Vaccine A, whereas heifers from farm 2 (n=16) were vaccinated with Vaccine B. Heifers from farm 3 (n=17), where no BVDV vaccines were used, acted as controls. Blood samples were analyzed periodically for BVDV antibodies, using five commercial ELISAs, based on BVDV p80 antigen or whole virus. At the end of the study, none of the animals vaccinated with Vaccine A seroconverted according to p80 antibody status, whereas up to 80% tested positive by ELISA against whole virus antigen. For the animals vaccinated with Vaccine B, 2/16 animals seroconverted according to p80 antibody ELISAs, whereas all had seroconverted according to the ELISA against whole virus antigen. In most cases, based on the use of ELISAs to detect specific antibodies against the p80 protein, at 15 months post-vaccination with inactivated BVDV vaccines the responses did not seem to interfere with detection of antibody to BVDV infection. However, the finding of a small proportion of vaccinated animals seropositive against BVDV p80 antigen suggests that antibodies that interfere with diagnosis of BVDV infection within the herd could exist, even when using p80 ELISAs.


pmid: 19095459
title: Study on continuous (254 nm) and pulsed UV (266 and 355 nm) lights on BVD virus inactivation and its effects on biological properties of fetal bovine serum
abstract: Both continuous UV lights and pulsed UV lasers have potentials to inactivate known and emerging viruses. Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), from the Pestivirus genus, is known to be a common viral contamination in (fetal) bovine serum (FBS). Also, BVDV has been used in the blood product industry as a surrogate for Hepatitis C virus (HCV), due to its similarity in structure and genome. Germicidal UV lamp with the wavelength of 254 nm and Nd:YAG laser (pulsed UV laser) in its third and fourth harmonic with the wavelengths of 355 and 266 nm, respectively, were used. BVDV suspended in PBS or FBS were exposed to different intensities and doses and then reduction in BVDV titer were calculated. To complete inactivation of BVDV suspended in PBS and PBS containing 5% FBS, 1.6 (t=30 min) and 3.2 (t=60 min)J/cm(2) were used. The minimum doses for inactivation of BVDV suspended in PBS with the 355 and 266 nm of pulsed UV laser were 352 and 92.25 J/cm(2). Also, the minimum doses for inactivation of BVDV suspended in FBS with 355 and 266 nm wavelengths of pulsed UV laser were 704 and 127 J/cm(2). To evaluate the irradiated FBS quality to support cell culture growth, FBS was treated with the dose of 190.5 J/cm(2) and 266 nm pulsed UV laser and was used to grow Vero cells, in comparison with a control group. The viability of cells in two groups was identical and the statistical evaluation showed no significant difference in 12 passages.


pmid: 11530192
title: Time to first calving and calving interval in bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) sero-converted dairy herds in Norway
abstract: Dairy herds in Møre and Romsdal County, Norway (regarded as initially free from the bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection) were studied retrospectively from 1992 to 1996. The herd reproductive performance (time to first calving, calving interval, and number of breeding services) was investigated for a potential effect of BVDV sero-conversion. The herd culling pattern--possibly affecting the above measurements--was included for investigation. Two different statistical models were used: the generalised estimating equation (GEE) method and multilevel modelling using Gibbs sampling. Though slightly different estimates resulted, both models agreed on an effect of BVDV in the second year after sero-conversion on the herd average time to first calving by--on an average-- 14-16 days. In subsets of case herds testing positive for BVDV antibodies among young stock, the impact on time to first calving tended to be more pronounced by an additional increase of 18 days. No effect on the number of breeding services for heifers or cows was observed (indicating a need to search for other determinants than reduced conception risk). There appeared to be no effect of BVDV on the herd average calving interval. There was a tendency for a higher risk for reporting animals lost/died in sero-converted herds, which we believe might be related to the occurrence of mucosal disease.


pmid: 1850184
title: Transmission of bovine virus diarrhoea virus by blood feeding flies
abstract: Three species of blood-feeding flies (Stomoxys calcitrans, Haematopota pluvialis and Hydrotaea irritans) were fed for five minutes on a bullock persistently infected with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) containing 10(4.5)TCID50 non-cytopathic BVDV/ml serum, then subsequently fed on BVDV-free seronegative animals maintained in isolation. Virus was isolated from recipient animals between days 5 and 10 using H pluvialis, and up to 72 hours after transmission with S calcitrans; virus isolation was negative using H irritans. Positive seroconversion results obtained with H pluvialis gave a steadily increasing antibody titre. BVDV was recovered from flies 96 hours (four days) after an infective feed for H pluvialis and S calcitrans, but for two hours only for H irritans.


pmid: 30112732
title: Seroprevalence and risk factors associated with bovine viral diarrhea virus and bovine herpes virus-1 in Zanjan Province, Iran
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and bovine herpes virus-1 (BHV-1) remain as the major pathogens with heavy economic consequences in Iran. The prevalence of antibodies against BVDV and BHV-1, the rate of BVDV persistently infected (PI) animals, and associated risk factors were evaluated in a cross-sectional study carried out in Zanjan Province, Northwest Iran, in December 2011. A total number of 562 cattle in 10 herds and five cities were randomly selected, and their serum samples were tested to detect antibodies to these viruses and also BVDV antigen-positive (PI) animals. The data were analyzed with Pearson's correlation coefficient, chi-square, and logistic regression test. In total, nine and eight of the selected herds were seropositive to BVDV and BHV-1, respectively. The overall seroprevalence of these infections were estimated at 28.6 and 10.7% for BVDV and BHV-1, respectively, and 0.53% of the samples were detected as persistently infected. Statistical analysis revealed that sex, age, and farming system are risk factors for both infections (P < 0.05), while breed was determined as a strong risk factor only for BVDV (P < 0.001). In addition, the present study certainly identifies that infection with BVDV is associated with infection to BHV-1 (OR = 4.52, 95% CI: 2.60-7.80; P ˂ 0.001). The results add our knowledge about the prevalence and associated risk factors of BVDV and BHV-1 in Iran and imply that the prophylactic and surveillance strategies need to be implemented to reduce the risk of spread of these viruses.


pmid: 9850544
title: Use of polymerase chain reaction to simultaneously detect and type bovine viral diarrhoea viruses isolated from clinical specimens
abstract: The techniques of indirect immunofluorescence (IF), immuno-peroxidase (IP) staining and the one-step reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) were compared for detection of 102 isolates of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in infected cell cultures. The BVDV was obtained from bovine clinical specimens, including sera, buffy coats and tissues, submitted from farms located in the States of Iowa and Wisconsin, United States of America. The IF technique detected 88/102 (86.3%) of the viral isolates, whereas IP staining detected an additional 4 isolates (92/102; 90%). The one-step RT-PCR using primers derived from the 5' untranslated region of the BVDV genome detected 102/102 (100%) of the BVDV isolates. A second-round PCR utilising another pair of PCR primers from the 5' untranslated region, allowed rapid genotyping of BVDV. The procedure used showed that the PCR assay based on the 5' untranslated region of the virus genome is the most sensitive indicator for BVDV detection in cell culture, and is also of considerable epidemiological importance since it allowed rapid genotyping of BVDV isolated from clinical specimens. In addition to detection and genotyping of BVDV isolated from clinical specimens, the RT-PCR procedure can be used for routine screening of locally produced and imported biologicals for BVDV contamination. However, the procedure requires further refinement to enable direct application on the clinical specimen.


pmid: 26510767
title: Heme Oxygenase-1 Suppresses Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus Replication in vitro
abstract: Viral cycle progression depends upon host-cell processes in infected cells, and this is true for bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), the causative agent of BVD that is a worldwide threat to the bovine industry. Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) is a ubiquitously expressed inducible isoform of the first and rate-limiting enzyme for heme degradation. Recent studies have demonstrated that HO-1 has significant antiviral properties, inhibiting the replication of viruses such as ebola virus, human immunodeficiency virus, hepatitis C virus, and porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus. However, the function of HO-1 in BVDV infection is unclear. In the present study, the relationship between HO-1 and BVDV was investigated. In vitro analysis of HO-1 expression in BVDV-infected MDBK cells demonstrated that a decrease in HO-1 as BVDV replication increased. Increasing HO-1 expression through adenoviral-mediated overexpression or induction with cobalt protoporphyrin (CoPP, a potent HO-1 inducer), pre- and postinfection, effectively inhibited BVDV replication. In contrast, HO-1 siRNA knockdown in BVDV-infected cells increased BVDV replication. Therefore, the data were consistent with HO-1 acting as an anti-viral factor and these findings suggested that induction of HO-1 may be a useful prevention and treatment strategy against BVDV infection.


pmid: 25759294
title: Characterization of thymus atrophy in calves with subclinical BVD challenged with BHV-1
abstract: Since the thymus is a target organ for the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), our experiment aimed to understand its relationship with the immunosuppressive effect by studying the consequences of a previous infection with BVDV on the thymus of calves challenged with bovine herpesvirus 1.1 (BHV-1). For this purpose, 12 animals were inoculated intranasally with non-cytopathic BVDV-1; 12 days later, 10 of them were coinfected intranasally with BHV-1. These animals were euthanized in batches of two at 0, 1, 2, 4, 7 or 14 dpi with BHV-1. Another 10 calves were inoculated solely with BHV-1 and euthanized in batches of two at 1, 2, 4, 7 or 14 dpi with BHV-1; two uninoculated calves were used as negative controls. Thymus samples from these animals were processed for viral detection and histopathological, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural studies focused on BVDV/BHV-1 antigens, cortex:medulla ratio, apoptosis (TUNEL and caspase-3), collagen deposition, and factor VIII endothelial detection. Our study revealed the immunohistochemical presence of BVDV antigen in all animals in the BVDV-infected group, unlike BHV-1 detection, which was observed in animals in both infection groups only by molecular techniques. BVDV-preinfected animals showed severe atrophic changes associated with reduced cortex:medulla ratio, higher presence of cortical apoptosis, and increased collagen deposition and vascularization. However, calves solely infected with BHV-1 did not show atrophic changes. These findings could affect not only the numbers of circulating and local mature T cells but also the T cell-mediated immunity, which seems to be impaired during infections with this virus, thus favoring pathogenic effects during secondary infections.


pmid: 8266891
title: Attempts at preventing further spread of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection in 5 Danish dairy herds in which BVDV had been isolated
abstract: In 5 herds in which bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) had been isolated, all animals were bled for virological and serological examination. After the herd blood test, follow up blood tests were made on calves born up to 6 months later in 1 herd, 9 months later in 1 herd and up to 12 months later in 3 herds. Persistently infected animals (PI animals) were removed and after a time period a small herd sample of 10 animals that were born after removal of the PI animals were examined for BVDV antibodies. At the herd blood test a total of 21 PI animals were detected. During the follow up period another 25 PI animals were born. Among animals in the small herd samples collected after removal of the PI animals, antibody positive animals were found in the 2 herds with the shortest follow up period. In the 3 herds with a 1 year follow up period there were no antibody carriers in the herd sample. It seems possible to prevent further spread of infection with BVDV if all animals in the herds as well as animals born during the following year are examined and PI animals removed.


pmid: 22547839
title: Respiratory disease caused by Mycoplasma bovis is enhanced by exposure to bovine herpes virus 1 (BHV-1) but not to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type 2
abstract: To determine if previous exposure to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and bovine herpes virus 1 (BHV-1) type 2 affects the onset of disease caused by Mycoplasma bovis, 6- to 8-month-old beef calves were exposed to BVDV or BHV-1 4 d prior to challenge with a suspension of 3 clinical isolates of M. bovis. Animals were observed for clinical signs of disease and at necropsy, percent abnormal lung tissue and presence of M. bovis were determined. Most animals pre-exposed to BHV-1 type 2 but not BVDV developed M. bovis-related respiratory illness. In a second trial, we determined that a 100-fold reduction in the number of M. bovis bacteria administered to BHV-1 exposed animals reduced the percentage of abnormal lung tissue but not the severity of clinical signs. We conclude that previous exposure to BHV-1 but not BVDV type 2 was a necessary cause of M. bovis-related respiratory diseases in our disease model.


pmid: 8581859
title: The pathogenesis of mucosal disease
abstract: The pathogenesis of MD is complex and remains somewhat obscure. Clearly, the disease occurs in cattle persistently infected with noncytopathic BVDV. It also is clear that cytopathic BVDV is associated with MD, and is the likely trigger of the cellular destruction that leads to clinical disease. Whether the cellular destruction is attributable directly to the cytopathic virus, or occurs as the result of other mechanisms remains unclear. Although immunotolerance is involved in MD, it can be broken and its role in the disease process needs further research. It is logical, and well supported by research, that noncytopathic BVDV is the source of cytopathic BVDV. It also is likely that most outbreaks of MD are the result of a spontaneous mutation of noncytopathic to cytopathic virus within a PI animal. Antigenic homology between viruses would be expected in those outbreaks. MD also occurs when PI cattle are exposed with a cytopathic BVDV that is antigenically heterologous with the resident noncytopathic BVDV. In those situations, it may be a race between the cytopathic virus and the immune system.


pmid: 16711566
title: [Mental notes in tracking BVDV carriers]
abstract: The detection and elimination of animals persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is the key to BVD control. This method has proven to be very efficient in eradicating BVDV in a herd. Several pitfalls in the detection procedure can make that some persistently infected (PI) animals do not get identified or are removed too late, supporting the assumption that circulation of the virus could be possible in absence of PI animals. Furthermore the risk of reintroduction is high since the prevalence of BVD is high in the Netherlands and Belgium. Based on both practical experience and literature, here we review critical control points in order to minimise the risk of a false negative BVDV screening.


pmid: 11266221
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus genotype 1 can be separated into at least eleven genetic groups
abstract: Seventy-eight bovine viral diarrhoea viruses (BVDV) recently collected in Austria, France, Hungary, Italy, Slovakia, Spain and UK were genetically typed in the 5'-untranslated (5'UTR) and autoprotease (Npro) regions of the pestivirus genome. Seventy-six of the isolates were BVDV-1 and two French isolates were of the BVDV-2 genotype. Phylogenetic analysis of the 5'UTR (245 nt), including additional BVDV-1 sequences from USA, Canada, Germany, New Zealand, Mozambique and Sweden, taken from GenBank and from our previous works, indicated that these viruses were clustered not only into the two generally accepted groups (BVDV-1a-"NADL like" and BVDV-1b-"Osloss like"), but altogether into 11 phylogenetic groups. Similar clustering was observed with Npro region sequences (385 nt) and the highest bootstrap values (over 95%) were obtained by phylogeny combining 5'UTR and Npro sequences. Some associations between the genetic grouping and the origin of the isolates were apparent, probably reflecting historical trade contacts. Considering the variability of isolates it is recommended that diagnostic PCR primers should be re-examined to ensure coverage of all BVDV-1 groups. The genogroups were less clearly differentiated by monoclonal antibody typing, suggesting significant antigenic similarities within the BVDV-1 genotype.


pmid: 29855763
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus subgenotype 1b in water buffalos (Bubalus bubalis) from Brazil
abstract: Serological studies have characterized the presence of the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in water buffalo herds worldwide. However, the molecular characterization of BVDV strains circulating in this animal species is uncommon. The aim of this study was to identify young water buffalo with acute infection and characterize the subgenotype of the infecting wild-type BVDV strain. Two dairy water buffalo herds from Northeastern Brazil were selected based on the results of virus neutralization test which showed high titers of anti-BVDV antibodies. To identify viremic animals, the BVDV RNA was assessed by RT-PCR assay in serum samples from 44 asymptomatic young water buffalos, where 31 serum samples from herd A and 13 from herd B. Amplicons with 288 bp of BVDV 5'UTR region were obtained in 7 (15.9%) serum samples (herd A, n = 5; herd B, n = 2). One good-quality amplicon from each herd was selected for nucleotide sequencing. The phylogenetic analysis demonstrated that the two BVDV wild-type strains clustered with BVDV strains of the subgenotype 1b. This study identified for the first time the active infection by BVDV subgenotype 1b in two dairy water buffalo herds from Brazil. These results highlight the importance of that, as well as in cattle herds, also in water buffalo herds prophylaxis measures to control BVDV infection should be intensified, mainly because these species clearly coexist in buffalo farms within Brazil.


pmid: 28099492
title: Priming Cross-Protective Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus-Specific Immunity Using Live-Vectored Mosaic Antigens
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) plays a key role in bovine respiratory disease complex, which can lead to pneumonia, diarrhea and death of calves. Current vaccines are not very effective due, in part, to immunosuppressive traits and failure to induce broad protection. There are diverse BVDV strains and thus, current vaccines contain representative genotype 1 and 2 viruses (BVDV-1 & 2) to broaden coverage. BVDV modified live virus (MLV) vaccines are superior to killed virus vaccines, but they are susceptible to neutralization and complement-mediated destruction triggered by passively acquired antibodies, thus limiting their efficacy. We generated three novel mosaic polypeptide chimeras, designated NproE2123; NS231; and NS232, which incorporate protective determinants that are highly conserved among BVDV-1a, 1b, and BVDV-2 genotypes. In addition, strain-specific protective antigens from disparate BVDV strains were included to broaden coverage. We confirmed that adenovirus constructs expressing these antigens were strongly recognized by monoclonal antibodies, polyclonal sera, and IFN-γ-secreting T cells generated against diverse BVDV strains. In a proof-of-concept efficacy study, the multi-antigen proto-type vaccine induced higher, but not significantly different, IFN-γ spot forming cells and T-cell proliferation compared to a commercial MLV vaccine. In regards to the humoral response, the prototype vaccine induced higher BVDV-1 specific neutralizing antibody titers, whereas the MLV vaccine induced higher BVDV-2 specific neutralizing antibody titers. Following BVDV type 2a (1373) challenge, calves immunized with the proto-type or the MLV vaccine had lower clinical scores compared to naïve controls. These results support the hypothesis that a broadly protective subunit vaccine can be generated using mosaic polypeptides that incorporate rationally selected and validated protective determinants from diverse BVDV strains. Furthermore, regarding biosafety of using a live vector in cattle, we showed that recombinant human adenovirus-5 was cleared within one week following intradermal inoculation.


pmid: 26330089
title: Cytopathic BVDV-1 strain induces immune marker production in bovine cells through the NF-κB signaling pathway
abstract: The bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV-1) is a pathogen responsible for high economic losses in the cattle industry worldwide. This virus has the capacity to modulate the immune system of several higher vertebrates, but there is little information available on the cell infection mechanism. To further investigate the effects of BVDV-1 on the activation of the immune response, the Madin-Darby bovine kidney cell line was infected with the cytopathic CH001 field isolate of BVDV-1, and the proinflammatory and antiviral cytokine expression profiles were analyzed. The results showed that BVDV-1 was able to induce the production of BCL3, IL-1β, IL-8, IL-15, IL-18, Mx-1, IRF-1, and IRF-7 in a way similar to polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid. Interestingly, all BVDV-1 activities were blocked by pharmacological inhibitors of the NF-κB signaling pathway. These results, together with in silico analyses showing the presence of several regulatory consensus target motifs, suggest that BVDV-1 regulates gene expression in bovines through the activation of several key transcription factors. Collectively, these data identified BVDV-1 as a viral regulator of immune marker expression, even from early infection. Additionally, this is the first report to find BVDV-1 modulating the activation of cytokine production and transcriptions factors mainly through the NF-κB pathway in vertebrates.


pmid: 20188405
title: Risk and prevention of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) transmission through embryo production via somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) using oocytes from persistently infected donors
abstract: The objective was to assess the risk of transmission of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) through embryo production via somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT), with oocytes obtained from persistently infected (PI) donors. Using ultrasound-guided follicular aspiration following superstimulation, oocytes were obtained from five female beef cattle, including three that were PI and two that were negative for BVDV. In the three PI cattle, seven aspirations yielded 32 oocytes (PI-1: three aspirations yielding six oocytes; PI-2: two aspirations yielding 14 oocytes; and PI-3: two aspirations yielding 12 oocytes). The oocyte recovery rate was better in negative control cattle, with 32 oocytes obtained from the two cattle in a single superstimulation and aspiration session. Oocytes were processed individually for SCNT, evaluated, and tested for BVDV. Nearly all (31/32) oocytes from the three PI donors were positive for BVDV by PCR, with detected viral RNA copy number ranging from 1 to 1.1 x 10(5). The proportion of oocytes acceptable for SCNT embryo production (based on oocyte quality and maturation status) was only 16 to 35% from PI donors, but was 81% from control donors. Therefore, routine testing of unacceptable (discarded) oocytes could be an effective approach to identify batches that might contain infected oocytes from PI donors. Identification and removal of high-risk batches of oocytes would minimize the risk of BVDV transmission through SCNT embryo production.


pmid: 11018279
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus induced apoptosis correlates with increased intracellular viral RNA accumulation
abstract: Non-cytopathic (NCP) and cytopathic (CP) parent-daughter pairs are often isolated from cattle with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) induced mucosal disease. Alignment of these pair genomes revealed that genetic changes in CP BVDV involve the NS2-3 coding region and correlate with expression of NS3. However, additional mutations are present elsewhere in the genomes of these natural pairs, precluding unambiguous mapping of this function to the NS2-3 region. To evaluate this phenomenon in identical genetic backgrounds, we have constructed an NCP isogenic pair of the NADL by deletion of the cIns from NS2 region. The levels of viral protein synthesis in infected cells revealed no marked difference between the CP and the isogenic NCP BVDV mutant. In contrast, RNA accumulation in cells infected with CP virus was up to 25 times higher than that in cells infected with NCP BVDV. No significant difference in growth kinetics and viral yields were observed between the CP BVDV and the isogenic NCP pair. Analyses of additional NCP/CP parent-daughter field BVDV isolates revealed a similar pattern of macromolecular synthesis, suggesting the generality of this phenomenon. These results implicate increased levels of RNA accumulation in CP BVDV infected cells, along with the production of NS3 as potential contributors to viral cytopathogenicity.


pmid: 8384625
title: Presumptive diagnostic differentiation of hog cholera virus from bovine viral diarrhea and border disease viruses by using a cDNA nested-amplification approach
abstract: Hog cholera virus (HCV), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and border disease virus (BDV) are closely related pestiviruses. BVDV and BDV are found worldwide but seldom cause disease in swine. In contrast, HCV has been successfully eradicated from swine in several nations but poses a potentially devastating threat to them because of its great virulence. Rapid differential diagnosis of HCV from BVDV and BDV infections in swine is vital for detection of the possible reintroduction of HCV into national herds from which it has been eradicated. Nested polymerase chain reactions (PCRs) for each of two pestiviral genomic segments are described. Amplification of the relatively conserved 5' genomic terminus identified 59 of 61 HCV, BVDV, and BDV isolates generically as pestiviruses. Nested amplification of the second region was designed to differentiate HCV from BVDV and BDV by exploiting relatively conserved differences in the nucleotide sequences that encode the major envelope glycoprotein. This second PCR correctly identified 36 of 36 diverse HCV isolates while failing to recognize any of 25 BVDV and BDV isolates. Multiple restriction fragment length analyses confirmed the identities of both external and nested PCR products. The two sets of PCRs may help confirm the generic identity of most pestiviruses and may permit presumptive differential diagnosis of HCV from BVDV and BDV.


pmid: 2132152
title: Clinical aspects of bovine virus diarrhoea virus infection
abstract: Bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection of cattle results in a wide range of clinical manifestations. This article reviews the clinical responses associated with BVDV and discusses these diseases in terms of acute infection in immunocompetent cattle, fetal infection, infection in cattle immunotolerant to and persistently infected with BVDV and finally mucosal disease.


pmid: 9491443
title: Comparison of RT-PCR assay and virus isolation in cell cultures for the detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in field samples
abstract: The virus isolation-immunoperoxidase test (IPX) on cell cultures and the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay were compared for the detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) directly in serum samples. Material for this study consisted of 403 sera originating from cattle in 41 BVDV-infected Finnish dairy herds and one suckler cow herd. The presence of virus was demonstrated in 48 samples by both assays. In addition, two more samples were found to be positive by the RT-PCR assay. Both methods proved to be extremely sensitive, detecting pestiviruses even in high serum dilutions, and thus to be suitable for demonstrating the occurrence of persistently infected (PI) cattle. In conclusion, the RT-PCR method used had the advantage of ascertaining BVDV nucleic acid sequences in samples in which the virus had been inactivated, eg during transport or due to the presence of neutralising antibodies.


pmid: 16214249
title: Indication of transmission of BVDV in the absence of persistently infected (PI) animals
abstract: In a closed dairy herd all animals were tested serologically for BVD antibodies twice a year during a 6-year period. Seroconversions were detected every year. At the start of the 6-year monitoring period blood samples from all animals were examined by virus isolation. No persistently infected animals were identified. Entire-herd culturing for BVDV was repeated at the end of the third year. Samples from all newborn female calves were examined for BVDV at approximately 2 months of age and older. During the entire monitoring period BVDV was isolated in one newborn calf twice with an interval of 3 weeks. The mother had seroconverted during pregnancy. Five congenitally infected non-PI calves were identified, the mothers of which had seroconverted during late pregnancy; repeated sampling proved the calves to remain seropositive in a seronegative age cohort. Although direct and indirect introduction of BVDV from outside the herd can never be excluded it seems highly unlikely in this closed herd. The findings indicate that transmission of BVDV can take place over a long period of time in the absence of PI animals. This observation may have serious consequences for control programmes.


pmid: 30637633
title: Pathological and virological features of skin lesions caused by BVDV in cattle
abstract: Dermatitis might occur in mucosal disease (MD) caused by bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). This study describes the pathological and virological features of skin lesions associated with BVDV infection in four persistently infected (PI) cattle. Skin samples were reprocessed for histopathology and IHC. BVDV isolates were obtained and were genetically characterized. In addition to upper alimentary system ulcerative lesions, all cattle (one outbreak and three individual cases) presented focal crusty and ulcerative lesions affecting the mucocutaneous and skin-horn junctions, interdigital clefts, pastern, and areas surrounding the dewclaws and diffuse thickened skin within 7-20 days of infection. Microscopic analysis revealed parakeratotic hyperkeratosis and single-cell keratinocyte death, accompanied by ballooning degeneration and spongiosis in the epidermis, as well as intraepithelial and subcorneal pustules. IHC showed BVDV antigen in the cytoplasm of keratinocytes undergoing individual cell death. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the isolates from cattle #1, #2, and #4 belonged to BVDV-1a, whereas that from cattle #3 belonged to BVDV-1d. Cytopathic BVDV was isolated from cattle #2 and #3 (MD), and non-cytopathic BVDV was isolated from cattle #1 and #4. Thus, BVDV infection might cause acute disease, characterized by skin and upper alimentary system ulcerative lesions, in both MD and PI cattle.


pmid: 21112633
title: Genetic and antigenic characterization of bovine viral diarrhoea virus type 2 isolated from cattle in India
abstract: Previous studies have shown that bovine viral diarrhoea virus type 1 (BVDV-1) subtype b is predominantly circulating in Indian cattle. During testing for exotic pestiviruses between 2007 and 2010, BVDV-2 was identified by real time RT-PCR in two of 1446 cattle blood samples originating from thirteen states of India. The genetic analysis of the isolated virus in 5' UTR, N(pro), entire structural genes (C, E(rns), E1 and E2), nonstructural genes NS2-3 besides 3' UTR demonstrated that the nucleotide and amino acid sequences showed highest similarity with BVDV-2. The entire 5' and 3' UTR consisted of 387 and 204 nucleotides, respectively, and an eight nucleotide repeat motif was found twice within the variable part of 3' UTR that may be considered as a characteristic of BVDV-2. The phylogenetic analysis revealed that the cattle isolate and earlier reported goat BVDV-2 isolate fall into separate clades within BVDV-2a subtype. Antigenic typing with monoclonal antibodies verified the cattle isolate also as BVDV-2. In addition, cross-neutralization tests using antisera raised against Indian BVDV strains circulating in ruminants (cattle, sheep, goat and yak) displayed significant antigenic differences only between BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 strains. This is the first identification of BVDV-2 in Indian cattle that may have important implications for immunization strategies and molecular epidemiology of BVD.


pmid: 15498606
title: Prevention and elimination of bovine viral diarrhea virus infections in fetal fibroblast cells
abstract: Noncytopathic infections with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) can compromise research and commercial use of cultured cells. The purpose of this research was to evaluate the ability of aromatic cationic compounds to prevent or treat BVDV infections in fetal fibroblast cell lines that are used in somatic cell nuclear transfer. To evaluate preventative use of compounds, 10 cell lines were inoculated with BVDV in the absence or presence of 2-(4-[2-imidazolinyl]phenyl)-5-(4-methoxyphenyl)furan (DB606), 2-(2-benzimidazolyl)-5-[4-(2-imidazolino)phenyl]furan dihydrochloride (DB772), or 2-(1-methyl-2-benzimidazolyl)-5-[4'-(2-imidazolino)-2'-methylphenyl]furan dihydrochloride (DB824). The 99% endpoints for prevention of viral replication by these treatments were 81, 6, and 14 nM. To evaluate therapeutic use of compounds, two fetal fibroblast cell lines infected with a genotype 1a strain of BVDV were cultured through four passages in the absence or presence of either 0.04 or 4 microM concentrations of DB772 or DB824. The presence and concentration of BVDV in media and cell lysates were evaluated using reverse transcription nested polymerase chain reaction and virus isolation from titrated sample. A single passage in 4 microM of either compound was sufficient to eliminate BVDV from cells without causing cytotoxicity. Our results demonstrate that in vitro infections with BVDV can be effectively prevented or eliminated by addition of aromatic cations.


pmid: 11243658
title: Genotyping of bovine viral diarrhoea viruses isolated from cattle in northern Italy
abstract: Following the first official report of a clinically severe outbreak of bovine viral diarrhoea disease occurring in a farm in northern Italy, which had originated from the use of a live vaccine contaminated with a strain of BVD genotype II virus, a retrospective study on the prevalence of BVDV genotypes in Italy became highly relevant. For this purpose, the genotype of 78 BVDV-positive specimens, obtained in 1998-1999 from dairy cattle in an area near to where the outbreak occurred, was characterized by PCR technology. Two sets of primers, spanning the 5' UTR of BVDV genome, were used sequentially in a first round of RT-PCR, performed on viral RNA extracted directly from 15 clinical samples and 63 BVDV-infected cell-culture fluids; a second PCR assay followed to selectively amplify only BVDV genotype II. All the viruses under study were characterized as BVDV genotype I. As well as contributing to a better understanding of the prevalence of BVDV genotypes in the field, the results of the present study illustrate the possibility that novel BVDV strains can emerge in susceptible animals through the use of contaminated immunobiological products for bovine use.


pmid: 7578445
title: Prevalence of cattle persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus in 20 dairy herds in two counties in central Michigan and comparison of prevalence of antibody-positive cattle among herds with different infection and vaccination status
abstract: All cattle in 20 dairy herds randomly selected from herds participating in the Dairy Herd Improvement Association program in 2 counties in central Michigan were tested for the presence of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Virus-positive animals were retested to ascertain persistent infection with the virus. A total of 5,481 animals were tested for presence of BVDV. In 9 of the herds, all animals were also tested for virus neutralizing antibody titer. Based on infection and vaccination status, these 9 herds were divided into 3 different herd categories: A, 5 herds with currently no cattle persistently infected (PI) with BVDV and without any vaccination program against BVDV in recent years; B, 2 herds with no current PI cattle but using killed BVDV vaccines; and C, 2 herds with PI cattle. PI cattle were detected in 3 out of 20 herds (15%). A total of 7 of 5,481 animals (0.13%) were PI. The mean prevalences of antibody carriers in herd categories A, B, and C were 28.8%, 76.4% and 90.6%, respectively. For one herd in category A, antibody analyses indicated that mostly young stock was seropositive, suggested recent BVDV infection in a previously closed and naive herd. Cattle in category B herds were vaccinated with killed vaccine from the age of 15 months. These herds had several antibody negative animals among the younger cows, suggesting incomplete protection against BVDV infection. In the 3 herds in which PI animals were detected, all cattle had been vaccinated with killed vaccine. The antibody-positive animals had antibody titers that were significantly different both among herds and among herd categories.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


pmid: 24745970
title: Synthesis and anti-BVDV activity of novel δ-sultones in vitro: implications for HCV therapies
abstract: In this study we report the synthesis and activity against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) of a novel series of bicycle δ-sultones containing γ-lactones. BVDV is responsible for major losses in cattle. Some of the synthesized δ-sultones showed pronounced anti-BVDV activity with EC50 values of 0.12-1.0μM and no significant cytotoxicity. Among them, the ortho bromosubstituted derivative 4f (EC50=0.12μM) showed better antiviral activity than other derivatives and was 10 fold more that of than positive control ribavirin (EC50=1.3μM). BVDV is also considered to be a valuable surrogate for the hepatitis C virus (HCV) in antiviral drug studies. The above results provided a novel candidate for the development of anti-HCV agents.


pmid: 24029404
title: Diagnostic gap in Bovine viral diarrhea virus serology during the periparturient period in cattle
abstract: Detection of antibodies against Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in serum and milk by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) is a crucial part of all ongoing national schemes to eradicate this important cattle pathogen. Serum and milk are regarded as equally suited for antibody measurement. However, when retesting a seropositive cow 1 day after calving, the serum was negative in 6 out of 9 different ELISAs. To further investigate this diagnostic gap around parturition, pre- and postcalving serum and milk samples of 5 cows were analyzed by BVDV antibody ELISA and serum neutralization test (SNT). By ELISA, 3 out of the 5 animals showed a diagnostic gap in the serum for up to 12 days around calving but all animals remained positive in SNT. In milk, the ELISA was strongly positive after birth but antibody levels decreased considerably within the next few days. Because of the immunoglobulin G (IgG)1-specific transport of serum antibodies into the mammary gland for colostrum production, the IgG subclass specificity of the total and the BVDV-specific antibodies were determined. Although all 5 animals showed a clear decrease in the total and BVDV-specific IgG1 antibody levels at parturition, the precalving IgG1-to-IgG2 ratios of the BVDV-specific antibodies were considerably lower in animals that showed the diagnostic gap. Results showed that BVDV seropositive cows may become "false" negative in several ELISAs in the periparturient period and suggest that the occurrence of this diagnostic gap is influenced by the BVDV-specific IgG subclass response of the individual animal.


pmid: 22919926
title: [Retrospective evaluation of data over five years of the BVDV prevention program using ear notch samples from the autonomous province of Bolzano (Italy)]
abstract: In 2005 the Autonomous Province of Bolzano implemented a BVD-Virus control programme by testing all newborn calves for Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) antigen by analysing ear notch samples. In eradication programs between November 2005 and October 2010 a total of 344,108 newborn calves were ear notch sampled and analysed for BVDV by an antigen ELISA detecting the E(rns) (HerdCheck BVDV Antigen/Serum Plus, Idexx Laboratories, Switzerland). The tissue samples were collected during calf ear tagging (within the first 20 days of life) using two sampling devices (TypiFix-System, Agrobiogen GmbH [Germany] and Allflex [France]). 0.4% (1400) of the collected samples showed a positive result, and of these, 583 calves were subjected to a follow-up examination, analysing the samples again by ELISA as well blood samples by Reverse transcriptase-PCR. Blood samples were also collected from the dam, if still present on the farm by the time of sampling. These results suggest that a BVDV control programme testing all newborn calves sampled for BVDV antigen by analysing an ear notch sample in principle is practicable. However, due to the low positive predictive value (75%) of the E(rns)-ELISA used, not all persistently infected calves can be detected.


pmid: 14519330
title: The live attenuated bovine viral diarrhea virus components of a multi-valent vaccine confer protection against fetal infection
abstract: Fetal infection with bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV) causes severe economic loss and virus spread in cattle. This study investigated the ability of modified live BVDV I and II components of a commercially available modified live virus (MLV) vaccine (Breed-Back FP 10, Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica Inc.) to prevent fetal infection and abortion, and therefore the birth of persistently infected animals. Heifers immunized with vaccine 4-8 weeks before insemination showed no adverse effects. All vaccinated animals had seroconverted to BVDV 4 weeks after immunization. Pregnant heifers were divided into two vaccination and two control groups and challenged with type I or II BVDV on days 60-90 of gestation. Seroconversion, clinical signs, immunosuppression, viremia, mortality, abortion rate, and fetal infection were studied. Post-challenge, 6/11 (type I challenged) and 8/11 (type II challenged) vaccinated heifers were free from clinical signs of BVD. Post-challenge clinical signs noted in the vaccinated groups were mild to moderate, while all unvaccinated controls had clinical signs ranging from moderate to severe. Viremia was not detected post-challenge in any of the vaccinated heifers. However, 100% of the controls were BVDV viremic on at least 1 day post-challenge. One of 22 vaccinated heifers had transient leukopenia, whereas 2/8 and 6/7 unvaccinated heifers in control groups I and II, respectively, had transient leukopenia. Type II BVDV infection led to abortion or death in 86% of unvaccinated heifers. The corresponding vaccinated group showed no deaths or abortions. All control group fetuses were infected with BVDV. The test vaccine gave 91% (type I BVDV challenged) and 100% (type II BVDV challenged) protection from fetal infection. This vaccine is safe and effective against fetal infection, abortion (type II BVDV) and the birth of persistently infected animals.


pmid: 24948756
title: Complete genome sequence of a bovine viral diarrhea virus strain isolated in southern china
abstract: We report here the full-length RNA genomic sequence of the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strain GX4, isolated from a cow in southern China. Studies indicate that BVDV GX4 belongs to the BVDV-1b subtype. This report will help in understanding the epidemiology and molecular characteristics of BVDV in southern China cattle.


pmid: 1653102
title: Comparative evaluation of the fluorescent antibody test and microtiter immunoperoxidase assay for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus from bull semen
abstract: An indirect immunoperoxidase staining technique (IP) is described for the detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in bovine semen. The performance of the IP was compared to the reference immunofluorescent staining test in its ability to detect BVDV in 23 coded field semen samples. The IP assay which can be applied with ease to a large number of samples and does not require expensive fluorescence microscope equipment, appears to be an alternative method for BVDV detection. The IP assay can be strongly recommended for certification of BVDV-free bovine semen for artificial insemination and trading purposes and for laboratories which are not equipped for performing the immunofluorescent test.


pmid: 16839713
title: Pestiviruses in wild animals
abstract: Pestiviruses are not strictly host-species specific and can infect not only domestic but also wild animals. The most important pestivirus, CSFV, infects domestic pigs and wild boars, which may cause a major problem for successful CSFV eradication programmes. Mainly BVDV specific antibodies have been reported in captive and free-living animals. Virus has been isolated from some of these animal species, but since BVDV can contaminate cell cultures and foetal calf serum, early reports of BVDV isolation have to be considered with caution. Genetic typing of early pestivirus isolates from wild species revealed that the majority were BVDV-1. Of the pestiviruses identified so far three species (CSFV, BVDV-1, giraffe pestivirus) and three genotypes (BDV-2, BDV-4, pronghorn) appear to circulate in wildlife animal populations. The potential for pestiviruses to spread between farm animals and free-living animals is discussed as are epidemiological and technical problems, and the future direction of research.


pmid: 20448278
title: Hypomyelination associated with bovine viral diarrhea virus type 2 infection in a longhorn calf
abstract: A newborn Longhorn heifer calf presented with generalized tremors, muscle fasciculations, ataxia, and nystagmus. At necropsy, no gross central nervous system lesions were observed. Histologically, the brain and spinal cord had mild to moderate diffuse microgliosis and astrocytosis, minimal nonsuppurative encephalitis, and decreased myelin staining. Ultrastructural examination revealed thinning and absence of myelin sheaths. Various cell types were immunohistochemically positive for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Noncytopathogenic BVDV was isolated from the brain and identified as BVDV type 2 by phylogenetic analysis. BVDV-induced hypomyelination is rare and analogous to lesions in neonates infected with border disease and classical swine fever viruses. This is the first documented case of hypomyelination in a calf specifically attributed to BVDV type 2 and the first description of the ultrastructural appearance of BVDV-induced hypomyelination.


pmid: 19795184
title: Characterization and application of monoclonal antibodies to bovine viral diarrhea virus nonstructural protein 5A
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) nonstructural protein 5A (NS5A) is one the least studied of the BVDV proteins. Therefore, to develop a tool for unraveling the functions performed by BVDV NS5A, monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) were generated by fusion of myeloma cells with spleen cells from mice immunized with recombinant E. coli-expressed GST-NS5A protein. Two MAbs (1H12 and 2F9) were established on the basis of immunofluorescence and Western blot analysis. Both the MAbs were of IgG1 subclass and recognized an epitope clustered within the N-terminal region of NS5A. Furthermore, the MAb 1H12 was used successfully to detect NS5A protein in BVDV field isolates belonging to genotypes 1 and 2. Temporal expression pattern studies during an infectious cycle revealed that BVDV NS5A could be detected 12-60 h postinfection. Confocal microscopy studies showed a cytoplasmic staining pattern and revealed that NS5A is localized on the endoplasmic reticulum membrane in BVDV infected cells.


pmid: 14519330
title: The live attenuated bovine viral diarrhea virus components of a multi-valent vaccine confer protection against fetal infection
abstract: Fetal infection with bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV) causes severe economic loss and virus spread in cattle. This study investigated the ability of modified live BVDV I and II components of a commercially available modified live virus (MLV) vaccine (Breed-Back FP 10, Boehringer Ingelheim Vetmedica Inc.) to prevent fetal infection and abortion, and therefore the birth of persistently infected animals. Heifers immunized with vaccine 4-8 weeks before insemination showed no adverse effects. All vaccinated animals had seroconverted to BVDV 4 weeks after immunization. Pregnant heifers were divided into two vaccination and two control groups and challenged with type I or II BVDV on days 60-90 of gestation. Seroconversion, clinical signs, immunosuppression, viremia, mortality, abortion rate, and fetal infection were studied. Post-challenge, 6/11 (type I challenged) and 8/11 (type II challenged) vaccinated heifers were free from clinical signs of BVD. Post-challenge clinical signs noted in the vaccinated groups were mild to moderate, while all unvaccinated controls had clinical signs ranging from moderate to severe. Viremia was not detected post-challenge in any of the vaccinated heifers. However, 100% of the controls were BVDV viremic on at least 1 day post-challenge. One of 22 vaccinated heifers had transient leukopenia, whereas 2/8 and 6/7 unvaccinated heifers in control groups I and II, respectively, had transient leukopenia. Type II BVDV infection led to abortion or death in 86% of unvaccinated heifers. The corresponding vaccinated group showed no deaths or abortions. All control group fetuses were infected with BVDV. The test vaccine gave 91% (type I BVDV challenged) and 100% (type II BVDV challenged) protection from fetal infection. This vaccine is safe and effective against fetal infection, abortion (type II BVDV) and the birth of persistently infected animals.


pmid: 31926963
title: Upregulation of the type I interferon pathway in feedlot cattle persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has a profound economic impact on the cattle industry. Calves infected in utero and born persistently infected (PI) with BVDV have increased morbidity, mortality, and reduced productivity. Further, they serve as a continual source of viral exposure to herd mates and thereby pose a significant risk to animal wellbeing and production efficiency. Understanding the mechanisms through which PI is established and maintained is therefore important in working toward finding means to prevent or mitigate losses due to infection. Early studies of acute infection suggested BVDV infection alters the host's ability to mount a type I interferon (IFN) response, thereby allowing for the establishment of PI. More recently, however, animals experimentally challenged with the virus demonstrated a chronic yet modest upregulation of the IFN pathway. To identify if the IFN or other pathways are altered due to PI by BVDV in a natural infection, the circulating blood transcriptome was analyzed from PI feedlot cattle (N = 10 BVDV1a, 8 BVDV1b, 8 BVDV2), cattle co-mingling with PI cattle but not themselves infected (N = 9), and a group of unrelated, unexposed controls (N=10). Differential expression analyses included contrasts among BVDV subtypes, and all pair-wise comparisons of PI, co-mingled non-PI, and unexposed animals. Analyses in limma-voom revealed no difference in the transcriptome based upon the BVDV genotype with which the animal was infected. However, gene expression did differ (adj P < 0.05 and |logFC|> 1) at 175 loci between the PI and co-housed, non-PI contemporaries and when compared to the unexposed controls, 489 loci were differentially expressed. Pathway analyses predict that alterations in the transcriptome of the PI cattle indicate significant upregulation of innate immune function including IFN signaling. These data support prior work suggesting IFN signaling is not completely suppressed in cattle naturally PI with BVDV.


pmid: 25986132
title: Impact of three inactivated bovine viral diarrhoea virus vaccines on bulk milk p80 (NS3) ELISA test results in dairy herds
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is endemic in many countries and vaccines are used as a component of control and eradication strategies. Surveillance programmes to detect exposure to BVDV often incorporate the use of bulk milk (BM) testing for antibodies against BVDV p80 (NS3), but vaccination can interfere with these results. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether BVDV vaccines would confound BM testing for specific antibodies in a nationally representative group of commercial dairy farms in the Republic of Ireland. A total of 256 commercial dairy herds were included in the statistical analysis. Quarterly BM or serum samples from selected weanling heifers (unvaccinated homeborn youngstock) were assessed by ELISA for antibodies against the BVDV p80 subunit and whole virus. Wilcoxon rank-sum and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analyses were used to examine differences among groups vaccinated with one of three commercially available inactivated BVDV vaccines. Two of the three vaccines showed evidence of interference with ELISA testing of BM samples. ROC analysis highlighted that one vaccine did not reduce the discriminatory power of the BVDV p80 ELISA for identification of herds with evidence of recent BVDV circulation, when compared with unvaccinated herds; thus, administration of this vaccine would allow uncomplicated interpretation of BM ELISA test results in vaccinated seropositive herds. Seasonal differences in BM antibody results were identified, suggesting that the latter half of lactation is the most suitable time for sampling dairy herds containing predominantly spring calving cows. The results of the present study are likely to prove useful in countries allowing vaccination during or following BVDV eradication, where BM testing is required as part of the surveillance strategy.


pmid: 12421586
title: Detection and characterization of pestivirus contaminations in human live viral vaccines
abstract: In view of the use of potentially contaminated foetal calf serum (FCS) in cell cultures pestiviruses may be present in live viral vaccines. Thirty-six lots of human live viral vaccines produced by three manufacturers were tested for the presence of pestiviruses. Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) RNA was detected in 33% of the vaccine lots. All positive results were caused by the mumps component of a single manufacturer. Partial sequences of the 5' untranslated region of BVD viral RNA were determined. The sequences were closely related to that of the NADL strain of BVDV. The amount of BVDV RNA in the vaccines was determined by real-time RT-PCR using the LightCycler. Between 3.3*10(2) and 6.2*10(5) RNA copies per dose were found to be present in the vaccine samples.Additionally, culture tests were done with FCS and human diploid cells used in the vaccine production of the manufacturer whose vaccines were positive by PCR. All attempts to detect virus antigen in MRC-5 human diploid cells or to infect these cells with BVDV failed. This suggests that BVDV RNA detected in human live viral vaccines represents passive carry over of BVDV from contaminated FCS rather than active virus replication in human diploid cells. Our results indicate that contamination with BVDV of FCS used in vaccine production does not appear to be of immediate concern to human health. Furthermore, our results indicate that gamma-irradiation of FCS destroys BVDV particles and is also effective in preventing the presence of BVDV RNA in the vaccines.


pmid: 10734446
title: Washing and trypsin treatment of in vitro derived bovine embryos exposed to bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Gametes, somatic cells and materials of animal origin in media are potential sources for introducing bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) into systems for production of IVF bovine embryos. Further, the efficacy of washing and trypsin treatment for removal of BVDV from IVF embryos is questionable. Washing and trypsin treatments recommended by the International Embryo Transfer Society for in vivo-derived embryos were applied to in vitro-derived, virus-exposed, bovine embryos in this side-by-side comparison of treatments. Embryos for the study were produced in a virus-free system in which follicular oocytes were matured and fertilized in vitro and presumptive zygotes were co-cultured with bovine uterine tubal cells for 7 d. A total of 18 trials was performed, 9 using a noncytopathic BVDV and 9 using a cytopathic BVDV. In each trial, 4 equal groups of 10 or less, zona pellucida-intact embryos/ova were assembled, including 2 groups of morulae and blastocysts (M/B) and 2 groups of nonfertile or degenerated ova (NFD). Each group was prewashed and exposed to 10(4) to 10(6) TCID50/mL of either noncytopathic (SD-1) or cytopathic (NADL) BVDV for 2 h. Following in vitro viral exposure, one group of M/B and one group of NFD were washed. The other groups of M/B and NFD were trypsin-treated. Both treatments were consistent with IETS guidelines. After in vitro exposure to noncytopathic BVDV and washing, viral assays of 100% (9/9) and 78% (7/9) of the groups of M/B and NFD ova, respectively, were positive. After in vitro exposure to cytopathic BVDV and washing, viral assay of 33% (3/9) of the groups of both M/B and NFD ova were positive. After in vitro exposure to noncytopathic BVDV and trypsin treatment, viral assay of 44% (4/9) of groups of M/B and 67% (6/9) of groups of NFD ova were positive. Finally, after in vitro exposure to cytopathic BVDV and trypsin treatment, viral assay of 22% (2/9) of the groups of M/B and 44% (4/9) of the groups of NFD ova were positive. Contingency table analysis, in which data was stratified by embryo type and virus biotype, was used to compare results. While a difference existed between results of the 2 treatments of groups of M/B within the noncytopathic biotype (P = 0.01, Mantel Haenszel Chi-square), no difference was observed between comparison of treatment between all groups in both biotypes (P > 0.05).


pmid: 23011308
title: Genetic characterization of bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) viruses: confirmation of the presence of BVD genotype 2 in Africa
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) has emerged as one of the economically important pathogens in cattle populations, with a worldwide distribution and causing a complex of disease syndromes. Two genotypes, BVDV 1 and 2, exist and are discriminated on the basis of the sequence of the 5' non-coding region (5' NCR) using real-time PCR. Real-time PCR is more sensitive, specific, and less time-consuming than conventional PCR, and it has less risk of cross-contamination of samples. Limited information exists on BVDV genetic subtypes in South Africa. The aim of this study was to determine the genotypes of BVDV currently circulating in South African feedlots. A total of 279 specimens (219 tissue samples, 59 trans-tracheal aspirates and 1 blood sample) were collected from dead and living cattle with lesions or clinical signs compatible with BVDV infection. Pooled homogenates from the same animals were prepared, and total RNA was extracted. A screening test was performed on the pooled samples, and positive pools were investigated individually. A Cador BVDV Type 1/2 RT-PCR Kit (QIAGEN, Hilden, Germany) was used for the real-time PCR assay on a LightCycler(®) V2.0 real-time PCR machine (Roche Diagnostics, Mannheim, Germany). The results were read at 530 and 640 nm for BVDV 1 and 2, respectively. Bovine viral diarrhoea virus was detected in a total of 103 samples that included 91 tissue samples, 1 blood sample and 11 trans-tracheal aspirates. Eighty-five (82.5 %) of the strains were genotype 1 and 18 (17.5 %) were genotype 2. Comparing the sequencing data, genotypes 1 and 2 from the field strains did not cluster with vaccine strains currently used in feedlots in South Africa. The present study revealed the presence of BVDV genotype 2 in cattle in South Africa based on the high sequence similarity between genotype 2 field strains and strain 890 from North America. The presence of genotype 2 viruses that phylogenetically belong to different clusters and coexist in feedlots is consistent with the possibility of multiple virus introductions. These results represent the first documented evidence for the presence of BVDV genotype 2 in African cattle.


pmid: 15606865
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus is internalized by clathrin-dependent receptor-mediated endocytosis
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is a pestivirus within the family Flaviviridae. In contrast to the members of the genus flavivirus, nothing is known about the viral entry route for pestiviruses. In this study, the process of BVDV infection following attachment to the cell surface was examined. BVDV clearly co-localizes with clathrin, with early endosome antigen-1 (EEA-1), an early endosome marker, and also with lysosomal-associated membrane protein-2 (LAMP-2), a lysosomal marker. BVDV internalization is inhibited by compounds that block clathrin- but not caveolae-dependent endocytosis. These findings demonstrate that BVDV enters the cells via the clathrin-coated pit pathway.


pmid: 7509538
title: Immunogens of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a ubiquitous pathogen of cattle that induces economically important diseases affecting multiple organ systems. In the United States, over 150 biological products are licensed for control of BVDV. These products contain live or killed BVDV, and many products contain other viruses or bacteria. Potency tests for these vaccines are based on animal inoculation and serology. For live virus vaccines, titration of viral infectivity in cell culture is an accepted alternative to animal inoculation. The immunogens in a killed virus vaccine may be measured by enzyme linked immunoabsorbent assay. Immunogens of BVDV that stimulate a protective immune response have not been conclusively identified. Epitopes on a putative viral envelope glycoprotein, gp53, are involved in viral neutralization. Other viral glycoproteins, gp48 and gp25, are immunogenic but epitopes on these proteins do not stimulate production of antibodies that efficiently neutralize virus. Progress in developing meaningful in vitro assays for quantitation of BVDV immunogens awaits identification of viral proteins that stimulate a protective immunity.


pmid: 32415638
title: Detection methods and characterization of bovine viral diarrhea virus in aborted fetuses and neonatal calves over a 22-year period
abstract: Detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in aborted fetus samples is often difficult due to tissue autolysis and inappropriate sampling. Studies assessing different methods for BVDV identification in fetal specimens are scarce. The present study evaluated the agreement between different diagnostic techniques to detect BVDV infections in specimens from a large number of bovine aborted fetuses and neonatal deaths over a period of 22 years. Additionally, genetic, serological, and pathological analyses were conducted in order to characterize BVDV strains of fetal origin. Samples from 95 selected cases from 1997 to 2018 were analyzed by antigen-capture ELISA (AgELISA), nested RT-PCR (RT-nPCR), and real-time RT-PCR (RT-qPCR). In addition, amplification and sequencing of the 5'UTR region were performed for phylogenetic purposes. Virus neutralization tests against the BVDV-1a, BVDV-1b, and BVDV-2b subtypes were conducted on 60 fetal fluids of the selected cases. Furthermore, the frequency and severity of histopathological lesions were evaluated in BVDV-positive cases. This study demonstrated that RT-nPCR and RT-qPCR were more suitable than AgELISA for BVDV detection in fetal specimens. However, the agreement between the two RT-PCR methods was moderate. The BVDV-1b subtype was more frequently detected than the BVDV-1a and BVDV-2b subtypes. Neutralizing antibodies to any of the three subtypes evaluated were present in 94% of the fetal fluids. Microscopically, half of the BVDV-positive cases showed a mild non-suppurative inflammatory response. These results emphasize the need to consider different methods for a diagnostic approach of BVDV associated to reproductive losses.


pmid: 2169673
title: Immunohistological detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus antigen in the central nervous system of persistently infected cattle using monoclonal antibodies
abstract: In a total of 25 cattle persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) the distribution of viral antigens in the central nervous system was studied. Using a panel of monoclonal antibodies (anti pestivirus C16; anti cytophathic BVDV C38; anti cytopathic and non-cytopathic BVDV C42; anti gp53 BVDV CA-1 and CA-3) and the indirect immunoperoxidase technique, BVDV antigen was located exclusively in neurons. Predilection sites for viral persistence were cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Morphological cellular alterations were not seen. Reactive perivascular lymphocytic infiltrations were occasional findings.


pmid: 18623993
title: Genetic typing of bovine viral diarrhoea virus: evidence of an increasing number of variants in Italy
abstract: Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) is responsible worldwide for severe economic losses on cattle farms. BVDV is an RNA virus with a high genome variability having practical consequences on epidemiology, diagnosis and disease control. Genetic monitoring was suggested as the first step in BVDV control. Thirty-seven Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Viruses were identified in persistently infected cattle, mucosal disease-affected animals and in bulk milk, and were characterised genetically. The 5'UTR region was amplified and sequenced, and a phylogenetic analysis was carried out comparing all the Italian sequences of BVDV available from the Genbank database. An unusual number of persistent infected animals was evidenced on more than one farm. Phylogenetic analysis attributed all our viruses to BVDV type I and distinguished four different subgroups inside this genotype. Analysis of old and new viruses revealed the circulation of viruses classified in subgroups BVDV Ia and Ij never reported in Italy.


pmid: 9586130
title: Prevalence of antibodies to bovine virus diarrhoea virus and other viruses in bulk tank milk in England and Wales
abstract: Bulk tank milk samples from 1070 dairy herds in England and Wales were tested by ELISA for antibodies to bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV). A subset of 341 herds was tested by ELISA for antibodies to bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) and bovine coronavirus (BCV). None of the herds had less than 40 dairy cows and none had been vaccinated against BVDV. The prevalence of BVDV antibody-positive herds in the national population was estimated at 95 per cent and approximately 65 per cent of the herds had a high level of bulk tank antibody suggestive of recent infection with BVDV. Dairy herds in East Anglia and the south-east of England had a significantly lower risk of being BVDV antibody-positive than herds in the rest of England and Wales. However, these regional differences tended to diminish with increasing herd size. Around 69 per cent of the herds were BHV-1 antibody-positive and all the herds were antibody positive to BRSV and BCV. Comparison with earlier serological surveys revealed that there had been little change in the prevalence and distribution of BVDV antibody-positive herds in England and Wales over the last 20 years, but that there had been an increase in the prevalence of BHV-1 antibody-positive herds.


pmid: 8151789
title: Pathogenesis of mucosal disease: a cytopathogenic pestivirus generated by an internal deletion
abstract: Cytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) arises by RNA recombination in animals persistently infected with noncytopathogenic BVDV. Such animals develop fatal mucosal disease. In this report, the genome of a cytopathogenic BVDV isolate, termed CP9, is characterized. CP9-infected cells contained not only viral genomic RNA of 12.3 kb but also a BVDV-specific RNA of 8 kb. cDNA cloning and sequencing revealed that the 8-kb RNA is a BVDV genome with an internal deletion of 4.3 kb. The 8-kb RNA represents the genome of a typical defective interfering particle (DI), since its replication was strictly dependent on the presence of a helper virus and strongly interfered with the replication of the helper. Cell culture experiments demonstrated that the CP9 virus stock contains two viruses, namely, a helper virus and DI9. While the helper virus alone was noncytopathogenic, the presence of the DI conferred cytopathogenicity. Expression experiments demonstrated that p80, the marker protein of cytopathogenic BVDV, is translated from the defective genome. The occurrence of this cytopathogenic DI is linked to a fatal disease in cattle.


pmid: 17336433
title: Evaluation of the induction of NS3 specific BVDV antibodies using a commercial inactivated BVDV vaccine in immunization and challenge trials
abstract: In order to evaluate whether cattle vaccinated with an inactivated vaccine against bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) can be differentiated serologically from BVDV infected animals, two different aspects were investigated. Firstly the antibody response against non-structural proteins (NS) was measured after multiple vaccinations of cattle with a single or double dose of a commercially available inactivated BVDV vaccine. In a second study, the animals were first vaccinated with the product, and then infected with BVDV. The antibody response was determined in four different commercial ELISA systems. It can be concluded, that the inactivated BVD vaccine exhibits properties of a marker vaccine when an appropriate antibody NS3 ELISA is applied: after vaccination NS3-specific antibody levels are low or undetectable, but the vaccination does in the present study not show any interference with the development of antibodies against NS3 after subsequent field virus infection.


pmid: 17039452
title: Fetal protection following exposure to calves persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus type 2 sixteen months after primary vaccination of the dams
abstract: This study demonstrated that the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV; types 1 and 2) fractions of a multivalent vaccine protected pregnant heifers and their fetuses at 149 to 217 days of gestation against exposure to calves persistently infected with BVDV type 2a. Eighty percent (eight of 10) of the control heifers were viremic at least 1 day following challenge, whereas all (20 of 20) BVDV-vaccinated heifers were virus isolation-negative on all postchallenge assessment days. Ninety percent (nine of 10) of the calves born to control heifers but only 5% (one of 20) of calves born to BVDV-vaccinated heifers seroconverted to BVDV type 2 before ingesting colostrum. One calf born to a control heifer was persistently infected. No calves from BVDV-vaccinated heifers were persistently infected.


pmid: 9765490
title: Identification and characterization of an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase activity within the nonstructural protein 5B region of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Nonstructural protein 5B (NS5B) of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) contains sequence motifs that are predictive of an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase activity. We describe the expression and purification of the BVDV NS5B protein derived from an infectious cDNA clone of BVDV (NADL strain). BVDV NS5B protein was active in an in vitro RNA polymerase assay using homopolymeric RNA or BVDV minigenomic RNA templates. The major product was a covalently linked double-stranded molecule generated by a "copy-back" mechanism from the input template RNA. In addition, a nucleotide-nonspecific and template-independent terminal nucleotidyl transferase activity was observed with the BVDV NS5B preparation.


pmid: 16809298
title: "Self" and "nonself" manipulation of interferon defense during persistent infection: bovine viral diarrhea virus resists alpha/beta interferon without blocking antiviral activity against unrelated viruses replicating in its host cells
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), together with Classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and Border disease virus (BDV) of sheep, belongs to the genus Pestivirus of the Flaviviridae. BVDV is either cytopathic (cp) or noncytopathic (ncp), as defined by its effect on cultured cells. Infection of pregnant animals with the ncp biotype may lead to the birth of persistently infected calves that are immunotolerant to the infecting viral strain. In addition to evading the adaptive immune system, BVDV evades key mechanisms of innate immunity. Previously, we showed that ncp BVDV inhibits the induction of apoptosis and alpha/beta interferon (IFN-alpha/beta) synthesis by double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). Here, we report that (i) both ncp and cp BVDV block the induction by dsRNA of the Mx protein (which can also be induced in the absence of IFN signaling); (ii) neither biotype blocks the activity of IFN; and (iii) once infection is established, BVDV is largely resistant to the activity of IFN-alpha/beta but (iv) does not interfere with the establishment of an antiviral state induced by IFN-alpha/beta against unrelated viruses. The results of our study suggest that, in persistent infection, BVDV is able to evade a central element of innate immunity directed against itself without generally compromising its activity against unrelated viruses ("nonself") that may replicate in cells infected with ncp BVDV. This highly selective "self" and "nonself" model of evasion of the interferon defense system may be a key element in the success of persistent infection in addition to immunotolerance initiated by the early time point of fetal infection.


pmid: 10712809
title: Neospora caninum and bovine virus diarrhoea virus infections in Swedish dairy cows in relation to abortion
abstract: The protozoan parasite Neospora caninum and bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) are recognized as important causes of bovine abortion and congenital disease worldwide. In this study, serological investigations were performed to estimate the prevalence of N. caninum infection in Swedish dairy cattle, to assess to what extent it may affect abortion rates, and to determine possible effects of coinfection with BVDV. The overall N. caninum seroprevalence in Swedish dairy cows was estimated at 2% (16/780), and the BVDV seroprevalence was 32% (249/780). Among aborting cows from herds with abortion problems, 7% (26/378) had antibodies to N. caninum and 42% (153/378) to BVDV. Seventeen of the N. caninum positive animals also had antibodies to BVDV. There was a statistically significant (P = 0.013) association between presence of antibodies to N. caninum and BVDV. In a case-control study comprising sera from cows in herds without recognized abortion problems, 6% (5/89) and 1% (1/89) of sera from aborting and non-aborting cows, respectively, had antibodies to N. caninum. Two of the N. caninum seropositive aborting cows also had antibodies to BVDV. These results confirm that N. caninum infection is associated with bovine abortion in Sweden and also indicate that there might be concurrent effects of N. caninum and BVDV. It is concluded that Swedish dairy cows have a low prevalence of N. caninum infection which is favourable in relation to possible future control programmes.


pmid: 23783173
title: A phylogenetic analysis of Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) isolates from six different regions of the UK and links to animal movement data
abstract: Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) is a pestivirus which infects cattle populations worldwide and is recognised as a significant source of economic loss through its impact on health and productivity. Studies investigating the molecular epidemiology of BVDV can give invaluable information about the diversity of viral strains present in a population and this, in turn, can inform control programs, drive vaccine development and determine likely infection sources. The current study investigated 104 viral isolates from forty farms across the UK. Through phylogenetic and nucleotide sequence analysis of the 5'UTR and Npro regions of the isolates investigated, it was determined that BVDV 1a was the predominant sub-genotype. However, BVDV 1b, 1e and 1i were also identified and, for the first time in the UK, BVDV 1d. Through analysis of animal movement data alongside the phylogenetic analysis of these BVD isolates, it was possible to link animal movements to the viral isolates present on several premises and, for the first time, begin to elucidate the routes of viral transmission. With further work, this type of analysis would enable accurate determination and quantification of the true biosecurity risk factors associated with BVDV transmission.


pmid: 21689960
title: In vitro permissivity of bovine peripheral blood mononuclear cells to bovine viral diarrhoea virus is dependent on the animal specific immune status
abstract: The in vitro permissivity to infection with homologous and heterologous bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) strains of bovine peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from eight naïve and eight BVDV-1b immune animals was studied. Four reference strains (BVDV-1a NADL, BVDV-1b NY-1, BVDV-2 125 and BVDV-2 890) were selected, based on genotype, prevalence and biotype. Virus neutralizing antibody titres were determined at bleeding and the viral loads were measured in PBMCs by end point titration in cell culture and by real-time PCR. PBMCs from both naïve and immune animals became infected by all BVDV strains tested, although virus titres were lower for immune heifers than naïve ones; the differences were significant for NADL (P<0.05) and 890 (P<0.001) strains. The in vitro model used in this study showed that PBMCs from immune animals are susceptible to re-infection with both homologous and heterologous BVDV strains, albeit at a lower extent than naïve cattle.


pmid: 10859371
title: Germinal centre localization of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in persistently infected animals
abstract: Immunohistochemical analysis of peripheral lymph nodes from gnotobiotic calves persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) revealed extensive deposition of E(rns) and localization of the viral genome in the light zone of germinal centres. Viral antigen co-localized with immunoglobulin in the germinal centres and was shown to be extracellular. Despite the presence of viral antigen in germinal centres, circulating anti-BVDV antibody was not detected. These findings provide evidence that calves persistently infected with BVDV, in the absence of adventitious infection, can generate a B cell response to the persisting virus. The nature of the tolerance in calves persistently infected with BVDV is discussed in light of these findings.


pmid: 12485357
title: Changes in distribution and numbers of CD4+ and CD8+ T-lymphocytes in lymphoid tissues and intestinal mucosa in the early phase of experimentally induced early onset mucosal disease in cattle
abstract: Mucosal disease (MD), one sequelae of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection, causes severe lesions in lymphoid tissues and mucosal surfaces. Lesions are associated with the presence of cytopathogenic (cp) BVDV and initially characterized by apoptotic cell death. The objective of this investigation was to determine if this cell death is mediated only by the cp BVDV, which is known to induce apoptosis in cell culture or if immune-mediated host reactions might also contribute. Early onset MD was experimentally induced in calves by inoculation of persistently viremic calves with a closely related cp BVDV. Calves were euthanized in the early phase of infection between days 5 and 13 post-inoculation and tissues from tonsils, lymph nodes, Peyer's patches, jejunum and colon were collected. Presence of cp BVDV antigen was correlated with distribution of lymphocyte subpopulations in consecutive cryostat sections. In the lymphoid tissues, cp BVDV antigen was predominantly found in the lymphoid follicles. The increase of infected cells with time post-inoculation was paralleled by a decrease of B-lymphocytes and an increase of CD4+ T-lymphocytes. An increased number of CD8+ T-lymphocytes was seen in progressed lesions only. In the intestinal mucosa, initially multifocal, later diffuse infection with cp BVDV was accompanied by a multifocal or diffuse increase of CD4+ T-lymphocytes, respectively. Numbers of IgA+ plasma cells and CD8+ T-lymphocytes were decreased. The common change observed in lymphoid tissues and mucosa was the increase of CD4+ T-lymphocytes in sites with lesions. This might indicate a cell-mediated immune response to the cp BVDV. Besides their helper function to other cells of the immune system, activated CD4+ T-lymphocytes might also exert cytotoxic activity, induce apoptosis in target cells via Fas/Fas ligand binding and thus contribute to the severity of tissue lesions in MD.


pmid: 17904667
title: Self-clearance from BVDV infections--a frequent finding in dairy herds in an endemically infected region in Peru
abstract: In this cross-sectional study, a stratified two-stage random sampling procedure was employed to select 221 dairy herds for bulk tank milk (BTM) sampling, and a subset of 55 dairy herds for individual blood sampling of a number of young animals (spot test), to predict presence or absence of current BVDV infection, and for data collection. The prediction was based on the high probability of seropositivity in groups of animals where PI animals are present because of the efficient spread of virus from PI animals to the surrounding group. BTM samples were collected in August 2003 (n=192) and February 2004 (n=195), and the 55 herds selected for spot testing and data collection were visited in December 2003. All samples were tested for presence of BVDV specific antibodies using a commercial indirect ELISA (SVANOVA Biotech AB, Uppsala, Sweden). The results demonstrated a very high level of exposure to BVDV in the region, and the proportion of herds with high antibody levels in the BTM was above 95% on both occasions. Despite this, almost two thirds of the herds had spot test results indicating absence of current infection, suggesting a high probability of self-clearance. A logistic regression model with the results from the spot tests as dependent variable was used to investigate possible herd and management factors associated with self-clearance, and suggested that this may occur regardless of herd size. Even though it is well established that the process of identification and elimination of PI animals is required within a systematic BVDV eradication programme, the present study strongly suggests that many herds may be cleared without intervention even in regions with high cattle density and high BVDV prevalence. Consequently, in any BVDV infected population (regardless of the herd-level BVDV seroprevalence), and at any given point of time, a large proportion of the herds will be free from infection due to self-clearance. Self-clearance is therefore a process that works in favour of any effort to control BVDV, which should be taken into account when planning and assessing the cost-effectiveness of a systematic control programme.


pmid: 10859371
title: Germinal centre localization of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in persistently infected animals
abstract: Immunohistochemical analysis of peripheral lymph nodes from gnotobiotic calves persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) revealed extensive deposition of E(rns) and localization of the viral genome in the light zone of germinal centres. Viral antigen co-localized with immunoglobulin in the germinal centres and was shown to be extracellular. Despite the presence of viral antigen in germinal centres, circulating anti-BVDV antibody was not detected. These findings provide evidence that calves persistently infected with BVDV, in the absence of adventitious infection, can generate a B cell response to the persisting virus. The nature of the tolerance in calves persistently infected with BVDV is discussed in light of these findings.


pmid: 24012354
title: Relative associations of cattle movements, local spread, and biosecurity with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) seropositivity in beef and dairy herds
abstract: The success of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) eradication campaigns can be undermined by spread through local transmission pathways and poor farmer compliance with biosecurity recommendations. This work combines recent survey data with cattle movement data to explore the issues likely to impact on the success of BVDV control in Scotland. In this analysis, data from 249 beef suckler herds and 185 dairy herds in Scotland were studied retrospectively to determine the relative influence of cattle movements, local spread, and biosecurity on BVDV seropositivity. Multivariable logistic regression models revealed that cattle movement risk factors had approximately 3 times greater explanatory power than risk factors for local spread amongst beef suckler herds, but approximately the same explanatory power as risk factors for local spread amongst dairy herds. These findings are most likely related to differences in cattle husbandry practices and suggest that where financial prioritization is required, focusing on reducing movement-based risk is likely to be of greatest benefit when applied to beef suckler herds. The reported use of biosecurity measures such as purchasing cattle from BVDV accredited herds only, performing diagnostic screening at the time of sale, implementing isolation periods for purchased cattle, and installing double fencing on shared field boundaries had minimal impact on the risk of beef or dairy herds being seropositive for BVDV. Only 28% of beef farmers and 24% of dairy farmers with seropositive herds recognized that their cattle were affected by BVDV and those that did perceive a problem were no less likely to sell animals as replacement breeding stock and no more likely to implement biosecurity measures against local spread than farmers with no perceived problems. In relation to the current legislative framework for BVDV control in Scotland, these findings emphasize the importance of requiring infected herds take appropriate biosecurity measures to prevent further disease transmission and conducting adequate follow-up to ensure that biosecurity measures are being implemented correctly in the field.


pmid: 2155768
title: Attempts to characterize bovine viral diarrhea virus isolated from cattle after immunization with a contaminated vaccine
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was isolated from 28 animals with a history of immunization against respiratory disease with a vaccine contaminated with BVDV. The vaccine-derived parental virus strain and the 28 isolates were analyzed using 10 monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) directed against different epitopes and antigenic domains on the major envelope glycoprotein of BVDV. None of the isolates displayed a reaction pattern identical with the parental virus. Instead, seven different reaction patterns (#A-G) emerged. Circumstantial evidence indicated that six of these were vaccine related whereas in one case (pattern #F) the origin of the isolate was unclear. The results indicated that BVDV rapidly changed during animal passages and that the tracing of the vaccine contaminant using Mabs was impossible.


pmid: 3033333
title: Cell-protective monoclonal antibodies to bovine enterovirus-3 and partial or no activity against other serotypes
abstract: Preparation of monoclonal antibodies to bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV) yielded some hybridoma cells that secreted monoclonal antibodies against the Madin-Darby bovine kidney cells. The anti-cellular monoclonal antibodies reacted with other bovine cells (bovine turbinate and testicle) but not with cell lines derived from other animal species. Subclones derived from one hybridoma partially blocked the infectivity of BVDV, possibly through the binding of the monoclonal antibodies with an epitope close to the receptor site of BVDV and not by way of steric hindrance. Unexpectedly, these same subclones completely blocked the infectivity of bovine enterovirus-3 (BEV-3) strain 240A and partially blocked the infectivity of BEV-2 and BEV-3 (ATCC strain) but not that of other serotypes. Other subclones derived from two other hybridomas, although cell membrane specific, did not have a protective activity against BEV or BVDV.


pmid: 15848792
title: Variation in immunogenicity of ruminant pestiviruses as determined by the neutralisation assay
abstract: Immunogenicity in naive three-month-old Friesian bull calves of nine ruminant pestiviruses, three each of type 1 bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV), type 2 BVDV and border disease virus (BDV) was directly compared in reciprocal cross-neutralisation tests using sera obtained eight weeks after intranasal and intravenous inoculation with live virus. Cytopathic (CP) type 1 BVDV strain C86, non-cytopathic (NCP) type 2 BVDV strain 890 and NCP BDV strain V2536/2 were found to elicit significantly broad cross-neutralising antibodies against viruses in other species whereas other virus strains in all three species produced a much more pronounced homologous and/or species specific response. Results are clearly relevant in the selection of strains for vaccines against diseases caused by these successful, economically important ubiquitous viruses.


pmid: 27856597
title: Complete Genome Sequence of a Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Subgenotype 1e Strain, SLO/2407/2006, Isolated in Slovenia
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) subgenotype 1e was isolated for the first time in Slovenia in 2006. Here, we report the complete genome sequence of BVDV-1e, strain SLO/2407/2006. The published genome will increase our understanding of the molecular characteristics of the BVDV-1e strains circulating in Europe.


pmid: 11312023
title: An inactivated bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) type 1 vaccine affords clinical protection against BVDV type 2
abstract: This study was designed to answer to two distinct questions. Firstly, is it possible to reproduce clinical signs of acute bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) type 2 infection including signs of haemorrhagic disease under experimental conditions in cattle at 20 weeks of age? Secondly, what is the extent of the protection afforded by vaccination with an inactivated BVDV type 1 vaccine against BVDV type 2 infection? Calves were vaccinated at 12 and 16 weeks of age with a commercially available inactivated BVDV type 1 vaccine (Bovilis BVD). At 20 weeks they were challenge infected with BVDV type 2 virus together with unvaccinated control calves. The unvaccinated animals developed typical signs of respiratory disease, diarrhoea with erosions and haemorrhages along the whole length gastro-intestinal tract, and depletion of lymphocytes in lymphatic organs. These signs were either absent or markedly less severe in the vaccinated animals. The beneficial effects of vaccination were most striking in the haematological parameters thrombocytopenia and leukopenia. It can be concluded that vaccination with Bovilis BVD affords cross-protection against clinical effects of a challenge-infection with heterologous type 2 BVDV.


pmid: 27206573
title: Molecular detection and characterization of bovine viral diarrhea virus in Mongolian cattle and yaks
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is classified into two species, namely, Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 and Bovine viral diarrhea virus 2, and affects cattle worldwide, resulting in significant economic loss. The prevalence of BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 infections and its genotypes in Mongolian animals has not been studied. In this study, we surveyed BVDV infection in dairy cattle and yaks from Bornuur and Bulgan counties by RT-PCR, and the average infection rate in the sampling sites was 15.8 % and 20.0 %, respectively. In addition, molecular features of the 5'-UTR region of the BVDV genome in Mongolian cattle and yaks were identified as belonging to the subtypes BVDV-1a and BVDV-2a, respectively. Determining the prevalence, geographical distribution, and molecular diversity of BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 in various host species in Mongolia is important for further studies and process control programs.


pmid: 10534007
title: Nested reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for typing ruminant pestiviruses: bovine viral diarrhea viruses and border disease virus
abstract: A nested reverse transcription (RT) polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay was evaluated for differentiating reference bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strains, BVDV from diagnostic accessions, modified-live virus (MLV) BVDV strains in bovine viral vaccines, and a reference border disease virus (BDV). The detection level of this assay was compared to viral infection in cell culture. The PCR assay was used to distinguish 3 ruminant pestiviruses, types 1 and 2 BVDV, and type 3 BDV. The consensus (first) PCR assay detected all 3 ruminant pestiviruses, a result of the shared sequence homology. The consensus PCR product was subjected to a second (nested) PCR which used type-specific primers. The nested PCR was able to differentiate the 3 ruminant pestiviruses. Viral stocks of BVDV were diluted 10-fold and processed for the 2-step PCR assay. The sensitivity of this 2-step PCR assay was compared to viral infectivity in cell culture based on identical volumes of the system tested (cell culture assay and processing for RNA). The RT-PCR type-specific assay differentiated BVDV laboratory reference strains (12), diagnostic laboratory isolates (15), 2 MLV BVDV vaccine strains, and a BDV strain. The 30 ruminant pestiviruses typed included: (1) 27 reference strains and diagnostic laboratory isolates; 18 cytopathic (CP) type 1 strains, 3 CP type 2 strains, 3 noncytopathic (NCP) type 1 strains, and 3 NCP type 2 strains; (2) 2 MLV strains, type 1; and (3) 1 CP BDV type 3. The PCR assay had a detection limit of 10 TCID50/0.025 mL of virus when 3 separate BVDV were tested. This 2 step RT-PCR assay would be useful for the typing of ruminant pestiviruses, particularly BVDV isolates from the diagnostic laboratory.


pmid: 29325885
title: 9-Aminoacridine-based agents impair the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) replication targeting the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp)
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection is still a plague that causes important livestock pandemics. Despite the availability of vaccines against BVDV, and the implementation of massive eradication or control programs, this virus still constitutes a serious agronomic burden. Therefore, the alternative approach to combat Pestivirus infections, based on the development of antiviral agents that specifically inhibit the replication of these viruses, is of preeminent actuality and importance. Capitalizing from a long-standing experience in antiviral drug design and development, in this work we present and characterize a series of small molecules based on the 9-aminoacridine scaffold that exhibit potent anti-BVDV activity coupled with low cytotoxicity. The relevant viral protein target - the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase - the binding mode, and the mechanism of action of these new antivirals have been determined by a combination of in vitro (i.e., enzymatic inhibition, isothermal titration calorimetry and site-directed mutagenesis assays) and computational experiments. The overall results obtained confirm that these acridine-based derivatives are promising compounds in the treatment of BVDV infections and, based on the reported structure-activity relationship, can be selected as a starting point for the design of a new generation of improved, safe and selective anti-BVDV agents.


pmid: 24490338
title: Analysis of BVDV isolates and factors contributing to virus transmission in the final stage of a BVDV eradication program in lower Austria
abstract: The BVDV eradication program in Lower Austria according to the Swedish model started in 1997 as a voluntary strategy and became obligatory for all herd owners in 2004. In this paper we analyse BVDV isolates found in PI animals of the last infected cattle farms at the genetic level and describe possible risk factors for virus transmission in the final stage of the BVDV eradication program in Lower Austria, where only five infected herds were identified in 2010. Viral isolates from 23 farms on which PI animals had been detected in 2009 (n = 10), 2010 (n = 5), 2008 (n = 5) and in 2006 (n = 3) were analysed at a genetic level at the 5'-UTR. All isolates analysed by phylogenetic analysis fall into five BVDV-1 subgenotypes, i.e., b, e, f, g, and h. No new subgenotypes were identified when compared to isolates analysed at the beginning of the BVDV eradication program. The phylogenetic analysis also revealed three groups of herds with genetically identical isolates; the first group comprised two herds, the second seven herds and the third four herds. Analysis of several factors such as distance between herds, purchase of cattle, work of farmers, veterinarians, assistants of milk recording associations and animal carriers indicated the latter as the most critical factor for transmitting the same viruses. Seven herds of two groups of identical BVDV isolates were served by the same cattle carrier, six herds shared the veterinarian and five herds had the same assistant of the milk recording association who could be the risk factor for the introduction of BVDV into the herd. The analysis helped to stop virus transmission. Therefore, from early 2012 up to now, no new infection has occurred in Lower Austria. The results indicated that biosecurity is a very important factor to prevent the spreading of viruses in the final stage of the BVDV eradication program.


pmid: 16263224
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) subgenotypes in diagnostic laboratory accessions: distribution of BVDV1a, 1b, and 2a subgenotypes
abstract: The prevalence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) biotypes and subgenotypes was determined from 131 BVDV positive samples from a diagnostic laboratory. The majority of the isolates were from Oklahoma; however, other states including Kansas, Texas, and Arkansas were represented. These BVDV samples were from submissions of 76 live animals and 55 necropsy samples. There were 131 BVDV samples represented by 117 noncytopathic (NCP), 11 cytopathic (CP) and 3 cases with mixed NCP and CP biotypes. The NCP isolates were more common (P < 0.05) than the CP and NCP/CP combination. The BVDV samples were segregated into three subgenotypes by differential PCR and sequencing of a viral genomic region, 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR). There were more BVDV1b subgenotypes 60/131 (45.8%) than BVDV1a, 37/131 (28.2%) or BVDV2a, 34/131 (26.0%) (P < 0.05). The organ system involvement included the major categories such as respiratory, digestive, mixed/multiple organs, abortions, and persistent infections (PI). All three BVDV subgenotypes were found in persistently infected (PI) cattle and respiratory diseases, both major requests for BVDV diagnosis. Only one of the 131 viruses was genetically similar to the strains present in U.S. vaccines.


pmid: 17109768
title: Review and critical discussion of assumptions and modelling options to study the spread of the bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) within a cattle herd
abstract: Relevance of epidemiological models depends on assumptions on the population structure and dynamics, on the biology of the host-parasite interaction, and on mathematical modelling. In this paper we reviewed published models of the bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) spread within a herd. Modelling options and assumptions on herd dynamics and BVDV transmission were discussed. A cattle herd is a population with a controlled size. Animals are separated into subgroups according to their age or their physiological status inducing heterogeneity of horizontal transmission. Complexity of models results from: (1) horizontal and vertical virus transmission, (2) birth of persistently infected animals, (3) excretion by transiently and persistently infected animals. Areas where there was a lack of knowledge were identified. Assumptions on the force of infection used to model the horizontal virus transmission were presented and discussed. We proposed possible ways of improving models (e.g. force of infection, validation) and essential model features for further BVDV models.


pmid: 19407087
title: Stability of Bovine viral diarrhea virus antigen in ear punch samples collected from bovine fetuses
abstract: Fourteen first-calf heifers were tested free of antibodies against Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) by serum neutralization and free of BVDV by polymerase chain reaction. Twelve were exposed to BVDV-1b strain CA0401186a at 84-86 days of gestation, and 2 were exposed to mock inoculum and served as negative controls. Fetuses were harvested by cesarean section at 115-117 days of gestation. The 12 fetuses removed from the BVDV-exposed heifers were BVDV positive based on virus isolation from kidney, thymus, cerebellum, and spleen. It can be assumed that these fetuses would have developed into persistently infected calves had they been allowed to go to term. Virus was not isolated from the fetuses of control animals. Ear punch samples were collected from all fetuses at time of harvest. Antigen capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ACE), using a commercial kit, was performed on ear punch samples that were frozen within 5 hr of collection and stored at -20 degrees C until tested, tested after storage for 7 days at room temperature (18-25 degrees C), or tested after storage for 7 days at 37 degrees C. Samples stored for 7 days at room temperature or 37 degrees C lost an average of 34% of their starting weight. All samples from BVDV isolation-positive fetuses tested positive by ACE, whereas samples from nonexposed fetuses tested negative, regardless of storage conditions. These results suggest that ACE testing of skin samples collected from aborted fetuses and stillborn calves found in the field may represent a practical surveillance method for BVDV-induced reproductive disease.


pmid: 16253360
title: Detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in seropositive cattle
abstract: Detection of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in one vaccinated beef cattle and three non-vaccinated dairy herds was investigated on peripheral blood leukocytes (PBL) with or without previous treatment followed by a capture ELISA (cELISA). Using the combination of PHA and polycation treatment, PBL from 229 seropositive cattle were studied and could be classified in four different states of BVDV infection. Lysed PBL from four animals were directly positive in cELISA (Category I), PBL of 17 animals were positive after PHA stimulation (Category II), 15 animals were positive only after PHA stimulation plus polycation treatment (Category III), while virus could not be detected in 193 seropositive cattle. Wild-type BVDV strains were isolated by co-culture on polycation-treated MDBK cells from 11 of these seropositive animals. BVDV antibodies of these same animals were able to neutralize their own virus, indicating that virus persists in PBL in spite of strain-specific antibodies. No apparent change of leukocyte subpopulations could be detected in any category of virus-positive animals. Thus, BVDV may be present in the PBL of some cattle, even in the presence of a specific active immune response.


pmid: 10989181
title: Presence of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) E2 glycoprotein in VSV recombinant particles and induction of neutralizing BVDV antibodies in mice
abstract: We generated a recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV-E2) encoding the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) E2 glycoprotein with the VSV-G protein signal peptide. Infection of BHK21 cells with VSV-E2 induced the synthesis of a recombinant E2 (rE2) that comigrated with authentic BVDV-E2 in PAGE-SDS gels. Non-reducing immunoblots showed that rE2 is a disulfide bond-linked homodimer with at least 10-fold higher avidity for conformation-dependent anti-BVDV-E2 antibodies than its reduced monomeric counterpart. Immunofluorescence microscopy also showed that rE2 was transported to the plasma membrane of infected cells and analysis of purified particles demonstrated that dimeric rE2 was incorporated into VSV-E2 virions in approximately 1:10 ratio with respect to the G glycoprotein. BALB/c mice inoculated intranasally with VSV-E2 doses of up to 10(7) plaque forming units (pfu) showed no symptoms of viral-induced disease and developed a specific BVDV neutralizing response that lasted for at least 180 days post inoculation.


pmid: 8985373
title: Authentic and chimeric full-length genomic cDNA clones of bovine viral diarrhea virus that yield infectious transcripts
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is the most insidious and devastating viral pathogen of cattle in the United States. Disease control approaches must be based on detailed knowledge of virus biology. To develop reverse-genetic systems to study the molecular biology of the virus, we first constructed a plasmid containing the entire genome of BVDV cloned as cDNA. Subsequently, we showed that infectious BVDV was produced by cells transfected with uncapped RNA transcribed in vitro from the cDNA clone. This result defined functional 5' and 3' termini in viral genomic RNA and established the biological importance of the proposed internal ribosome entry site element in the 5' untranslated region of the viral genome. BVDV rescued from the infectious cDNA clone has an in vitro phenotype similar to that of the wild-type parent, the National Animal Disease Laboratory strain of BVDV. A deletion of a single codon in the full-length genomic BVDV cDNA clone, encoding glutamic acid at position 1600, gave rise to sequence-tagged virus easily identified by restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of reverse transcription-PCR amplicons. Suitability of the molecular clone of BVDV for genomic manipulations was shown by substitution of the major envelope glycoprotein E2/gp53 with that of the Singer strain, giving rise to a chimeric virus. The predicted change in antigenic structure of the chimeric virus could be readily identified with strain-specific monoclonal antibodies by neutralization and immunofluorescence assays. Immediate applications of this system include development of safe and effective live vaccine strains possessing predetermined defined attenuating mutations.


pmid: 34451386
title: Transmission Dynamics of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus in Hokkaido, Japan by Phylogenetic and Epidemiological Network Approaches
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) caused by BVD virus (BVDV) leads to economic loss worldwide. Cattle that are persistently infected (PI) with BVDV are known to play an important role in viral transmission in association with the animal movement, as they shed the virus during their lifetime. In this research, the "hot spot" for BVD transmission was estimated by combining phylogenetic and epidemiological analyses for PI cattle and cattle that lived together on BVDV affected farms in Tokachi district, Hokkaido prefecture, Japan. Viral isolates were genetically categorized into BVDV-1a, 1b, and 2a, based on the nucleotide sequence of the entire E2 region. In BVDV genotype 1, subgenotype b (BVDV-1b), cluster I was identified as the majority in Tokachi district. Network analysis indicated that 12 of the 15 affected farms had cattle movements from other facilities (PI-network) and farms affected with BVDV-1b cluster I consisted of a large network. It was implied that the number of cattle movements themselves would be a risk of BVD transmission, using the PageRank algorithm. Therefore, these results demonstrate that cattle movements would contribute to disease spread and the combination of virological and epidemiological analysis methods would be beneficial in determining possible virus transmission routes.


pmid: 29511108
title: Natural transmission of bovine viral diarrhoea virus-1c from a persistently infected neonate lamb to naïve sheep and cattle
abstract: This study investigated the transmission of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV)-1c from a persistently infected (PI) neonate lamb to naïve sheep and cattle using three treatment groups: four naïve ewes and their five lambs, which were copaddocked with the PI lamb; five steers, which were housed in a paddock adjacent to the PI lamb; and five steers, which had direct but limited exposure to the PI lamb. Serum samples were collected and tested for BVDV-specific antibodies. Serum samples from the PI lamb, from day of birth to eight weeks of age, were tested for BVDV-specific antibodies and antigen and submitted for quantitative PCR to determine the viral load present at each week of age. Only one lamb from the copaddocked group developed BVDV-specific antibodies following comingling while all the steers in both the cattle treatment groups remained BVDV antibody negative. Quantitative PCR results from the PI lamb showed lower viral loads from day of birth to six weeks of age, compared with the results at seven and eight weeks of age. This may reflect maternal colostral BVDV antibody concentrations in the neonate lamb or other viral properties.


pmid: 23327217
title: Natural in utero infection of neonatal calves with bovine viral diarrhoea virus on a large dairy farm in Saudi Arabia
abstract: The dairy industry is a large and important business in Saudi Arabia. Although farms are administered to high international standards, some reproduction problems, of uncertain aetiology, are encountered. The most frequently seen are conception failures, abortions, stillbirths and the birth of weak or malformed calves. These conditions are suggestive of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection. Unfortunately, very little published information is available regarding the impact of this disease on cattle populations in Saudi Arabia. As a consequence, the present study was carried out and is the first of its kind in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf region. The aim of the study was to elucidate the role of in utero BVDV infection leading to the birth of weak or malformed calves on a large dairy farm in Saudi Arabia. The study was divided into two parts. Firstly, apparently healthy neonatal calves were sampled for the detection of pre-colostral serum antibodies to BVDV. The presence of these antibodies indicates exposure of the foetus to BVDV during the last two trimesters of gestation. Secondly, tissue samples from malformed neonatal calves were examined for the presence of BVDV antigens. Detection of such antigens confirms exposure of the foetus to the virus during the first trimester of gestation. The results of the investigation indicated that 36.1% of the neonatal calves were exposed to BVDV infection in utero. This is higher than what has been reported in the literature and suggests that dairy farmers in the Arabian Peninsula need to be made aware of the dangers of BVDV infections in their herds. The epidemiological significance of the results is discussed.


pmid: 20670907
title: Electroporation enhances immune responses and protection induced by a bovine viral diarrhea virus DNA vaccine in newborn calves with maternal antibodies
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is one of the major pathogens in cattle. In this study, newborn calves with maternal antibodies were vaccinated with a BVDV DNA vaccine, either by conventional intramuscular (IM) injection or with the TriGrid™ Delivery System for IM delivery (TDS-IM). The calves vaccinated with the TDS-IM developed more rapidly and effectively BVDV-specific humoral and cell-mediated immune responses in the presence of maternal antibodies. Overall, the immune responses induced by delivery with the TDS-IM remained stronger than those elicited by conventional IM injection of the BVDV DNA vaccine. Accordingly, electroporation-mediated delivery of the BVDV DNA vaccine resulted in close to complete protection from clinical signs of disease, while conventional IM administration did not fully prevent morbidity and mortality following challenge with BVDV-2. These results demonstrate the TDS-IM to be effective as a delivery system for a BVDV DNA vaccine in newborn calves in the presence of maternal antibodies, which supports the potential of electroporation as a delivery method for prophylactic DNA vaccines.


pmid: 12737050
title: A survey for BVDV antibodies in cattle farms in Slovakia and genetic typing of BVDV isolates from imported animals
abstract: A serological survey for bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) antibodies on a collection of 1295 serum samples obtained from 6-12 months old cattle originating from 45 farms in Slovakia was carried out. On 13 farms more than 90% of the examined animals were seropositive, on 14 farms 71-90% seroprevalence was observed, on 13 farms only 50-70% animals were found to be positive for BVDV antibodies, while the remaining 5 farms showed fewer than 50% seropositive animals. The average incidence of BVDV antibodies (around 70%) was similar as determined 30 years ago. Of 84 serum samples from seronegative animals originating from 14 farms in which 70-98% seropositivity was observed, six were positive in Ag-BVDV ELISA indicating persistently infected (PI) cattle. On a farm to which animals were imported from abroad, a BVD outbreak was observed. Of 110 animals tested, four were positive in Ag-ELISA indicating the presence of PI cattle on this farm. Genetic typing of two isolates from imported animals performed by RT-PCR (324/326 primers from 5'-UTR), sequencing of PCR products and computer-assisted phylogenetic analysis revealed that they belong to BVDV-1 h group.


pmid: 11480517
title: The relationship between the occurrence of undifferentiated bovine respiratory disease and titer changes to bovine coronavirus and bovine viral diarrhea virus in 3 Ontario feedlots
abstract: Serological evidence of previous viral exposure (titer at arrival) and current viral exposure (titer increase) during a 28-day study period, was used to determine if bovine coronavirus (BCV) or bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was associated with the occurrence of undifferentiated bovine respiratory disease (UBRD) in feedlot calves. Neutralizing antibody titers to BCV and BVDV were determined for 852 animals from 3 Ontario feedlots. Calves at 2 of the 3 feedlots (n = 753) received a modified live 4-way viral vaccine containing BVDV. On arrival at the feedlots, 90% of animals were seropositive for BCV, while 39% of animals were seropositive for BVDV. This evidence of previous exposure to both viruses was associated with reduced subsequent UBRD risk. Evidence of exposure to BCV during the study period was common, as 50% of animals showed a 16-fold or greater titer increase; however, treatment for UBRD was not associated with titer change. Although the majority of animals were vaccinated for BVDV at arrival, within a feedlot, animals treated for UBRD had larger titer increases to BVDV than non-treated animals. Based on our findings we infer that BCV was not causally related to UBRD occurrence, however consistent with other literature, BVDV may be causally related to UBRD occurrence.


pmid: 1966720
title: Ruminant pestivirus infection in pigs
abstract: Ruminant pestivirus infections of pigs have a worldwide distribution. The prevalence is varied and depends mainly on (i) contact with cattle, (ii) age of pigs and (iii) degree of homology of virus strains used for serology, with field strains of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infecting pigs. Emphasis should be laid on sources of BVDV other than cattle, e.g. contaminated vaccines and fetal calf serum. The need for differentiation of pestiviruses (hog cholera, bovine virus diarrhoea and Border disease viruses) is highlighted by the fact that clinical disease syndromes, e.g. growth retardation and wasting, are reminiscent of hog cholera. Monoclonal antibodies are available which differentiate between hog cholera virus (HCV) and ruminant pestiviruses, presumably BVDV. An up-to-date account of the antigenic relationship between pestiviruses is included in the review. Analysis of the in vitro host range of these viruses is considered to be important and may explain infections of pigs with pestiviruses other than HCV. Recent results have shown the existence of "specialists" amongst BVDV strains for bovine cells, and a few isolates also performed well in cultures of the PK15 cell line. In contrast, multipotent BVDV strains presumably have additional attachment sites for ovine and porcine cells. Identification of receptors on ovine and porcine cells could contribute to a clear distinction between BVDV and HCV infections of pigs. Immediate control measures for BVDV infections of pigs are not required. However, such infections may interfere with serologic surveys and surveillance on a herd basis and, therefore, impair eradication programmes and efforts to maintain the status in countries declared free of hog cholera.


pmid: 31040217
title: Mapping the global prevalence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus infection and its associated mitigation programmes
abstract: The aim of this study was to collect information on the global distribution of the prevalence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and respective mitigation programmes, using a questionnaire and literature review to provide as complete a picture of the worldwide BVDV situation as possible. This study collated information on 107 countries with respect to mitigation activities and 88 countries regarding BVDV infections during the observation period (1960-2017). A heterogeneous epidemiological situation for both BVDV prevalence and the presence of mitigation programmes was observed. The results of this analysis could be used to increase the visibility of the distribution of BVDV, to provide supporting data for global animal disease databases and to assist veterinary public health authorities in the decision-making processes to establish mitigation activities.


pmid: 16854474
title: Selection and characterization of canine, swine and rabbit cell lines resistant to bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Contamination of cell cultures with adventitious viruses may pose serious risks for virology diagnosis, research and vaccine production. This article reports the selection and characterization of three cell lines resistant to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a major contaminant of cell cultures. The resistant cells were obtained from canine (MDCK), swine (PK-15) and rabbit (RK-13) parental cell lines by expanding and cloning cells that survived lytic infection with BVDV. All three selected cell lines were resistant to three standard BVDV strains and to 10 field isolates as demonstrated by immunofluorescence for viral antigens and by co-cultivation with susceptible cells. Inoculation of selected cells with BVDV (10 TCID50/cell) resulted in frequencies of infection of <10(-5) (MDCK-R, PK-15R) and 3.3 x 10(-4) (RK-13R). Comparing to the parental cell lines, these cells were >10,000-, >20,000- and 600-fold less susceptible to BVDV, respectively. Inoculation of resistant cells with BVDV in the presence of polyethylene-glycol increased the frequency of infection in the order of >437-, >346- and 87-fold, respectively, indicating that resistance is probably due to a block in viral entry. Nevertheless, each resistant cell line retained the susceptibility to three other viruses that replicate in the parental cells. Thus, these cells may be useful for many virology purposes, with a very low risk of BVDV contamination.


pmid: 2562207
title: Detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus by spot hybridization with probes prepared from cloned cDNA sequences
abstract: A cytopathic strain of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was purified from infected cell culture fluids by isopycnic density-gradient centrifugation. Genomic RNA was extracted and tailed with adenine residues at the 3' end with poly-A polymerase. Double-stranded complementary DNA (cDNA) was synthesized, using the poly-A-tailed RNA as a template and oligo-dT as a primer, and then cloned into the pUC9 plasmid. Virus-specific cDNA sequences, varying in length from 0.5 to 2.5 kilobases (kb), were obtained. One BVDV-specific sequence of cloned cDNA, 1.1 kb in length and with an internal Pst I restriction endonuclease cleavage site, was selected for use as a probe. The cloned cDNA insert was removed from the plasmid either with or without flanking plasmid sequences and labeled with 32P-nucleotides by nick translation for use as hybridization probes for BVDV. The performance of probes of smaller fragments of the insert was compared to that of the intact sequence in hybridization assays. In addition, 2 methods of specimen preparation were compared to establish optimum parameters for hybridization. The hybridization assay was 10-100 times more sensitive than infectivity assays for BVDV in infected cell cultures. Freezing of specimens reduced by 10-fold the sensitivity of hybridization for BVDV target sequences. The probes prepared from the cloned cDNA hybridized with all cytopathic and noncytopathic BVDV strains tested but not with uninfected cell cultures, cellular ribosomal RNA, bovine coronavirus, bluetongue virus, or bovine adenovirus 3. Probes prepared with native plasmid DNA did not hybridize with BVDV or uninfected cell cultures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


pmid: 19941402
title: Genomic sequencing and characterization of a Chinese isolate of Bovine viral diarrhea virus 2
abstract: The complete genomic sequencing and characterization of Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolate XJ-04 originated from cattle in China was described. The genomic RNA of the isolate was 12,284 nt long and contained short 5'- untranslated region (UTR), 3'-non-coding regions (NCR), and one open reading frame (ORF) encoding a large polyprotein of 3,895 amino acids with 20 potential N-glycosylation sites. The identity of the isolate XJ-04 with reference strains NADL (BVDV-1) and 890 (BVDV-2) in autoprotease (N(pro)) gene and structural genes (C, E(rns), E1, E2) was analyzed. The percentage of nt and aa identity in analyzed genes indicated that the isolate XJ-04 was closer to the reference strain 890 (BVDV-2) than to NADL (BVDV-1). Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the isolate belonged to BVDV-2a subtype. Furthermore, comparison analysis indicated that the isolate XJ-04 did not contain any genomic insertions that can be directly related to the cytopathic phenotype.


pmid: 11243683
title: Diversity among bovine pestiviruses
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) isolates are characterized by an important genetic, antigenic and pathogenic diversity. The emergence of new hypervirulent BVDV strains in North America has provided clear evidence of pathogenic differences between BVDV strains. The origin of BVDV diversity is related to high mutation rate occurring in RNA viruses but the consequences of mutations obviously depend on the genes which are involved. Mutations in genes encoding for structural proteins of immunological importance may have practical implications. Knowledge of BVDV diversity is important for understanding the wide variety of pathogenesis of diseases caused by the virus, for monitoring the epidemiology of the different types and for the design of optimum laboratory tests and vaccines. This review focuses on the origin and consequences of BVDV diversity with regard to pathogenesis, biotypes, and antigenic and genetic variations.


pmid: 9249703
title: Experimental infection of deer with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: In order to determine the susceptibility of deer to infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), four mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) fawns and one white-tailed deer (O. virginianus) fawn were inoculated intranasally with the New York-1 strain of BVDV originally isolated from cattle. None of the animals developed clinical signs of illness. Virus was isolated from white blood cells from four fawns on one or more occasions from day 2 through day 15 post-inoculation (PI) indicating that infection and systemic spread of BVDV had occurred. In addition, virus was isolated from nasal swabs from three fawns, one to three times, from day 2 through day 8 PI. Four fawns had virus neutralizing antibody titers to two strains of BVDV prior to inoculation and all developed greater than four-fold increases in virus neutralizing antibody titers by 3 wk PI. No gross lesions of bovine viral diarrhea were detected at necropsy approximately 3 mo PI. A variety of nonspecific lesions were detected by histopathology. Based on these findings, mule and white-tailed deer are susceptible to infection with BVDV. Isolation of virus from nasal swabs is evidence that BVDV could be transmitted by deer via direct contact.


pmid: 30964461
title: Bayesian assessment of two competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays for the detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus antibodies in bovine sera
abstract: Infections due to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) are endemic in most cattleproducing countries throughout the world and bovine viral diarrhoea is considered a transboundary disease. The key elements of a BVDV control programme are vaccination, biosecurity, elimination of persistently infected (PI) animals and surveillance. The aim of this study was to assess the sensitivity (Se) and the specificity (Sp) of two commercial competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) based on selected immune-dominant BVDV proteins: the non-structural protein NS3 (p80) and the recombinant envelope glycoprotein E0(Erns). Both tests were used on individual serum samples from randomly sampled young bovines in southern Belgium in order to detect specific BVDV antibodies. The Se and Sp were assessed using a Bayesian approach and were estimated, respectively, at 97.2% (with 95% credibility interval [Cr I]: 95.1-99.8) and 98.7%(95% Cr I: 96.6-99.9) for the first test and 95.8% (95% Cr I: 91.1-99.7) and 96.1%(95% Cr I: 95.1-97.7) for the second test. The results obtained with the two tests were not significantly different. In addition, using both ELISAs, the current BVDV exposure among young bovines in southern Belgium was estimated at 23.3% (95%Cr I: 20.6-26.2). Combining virological testing of all newborns to detect PI animals with regular serological testing of young stock using ELISAs is recommended in the surveillance of BVDV.


pmid: 27622156
title: Seroprevalence and risk factors associated with bovine herpesvirus 1 and bovine viral diarrhea virus in North-Eastern Mexico
abstract: Bovine herpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) are well known etiological agents of cattle that produce important economic losses due to reproductive failures and calf mortality, as well as enteric and respiratory disease. Tamaulipas is located northeast of Mexico, an important cattle production and the principal exporter of calf and heifer to the United States. The objectives of this study were to estimate the seroprevalence of BoHV-1 and of BVDV, and to determine the effects of risk factors on these infections. Blood samples of cattle from 57 farms from rural districts of Tamaulipas were collected. The samples were tested for antibodies against BoHV-1 and BVDV using commercial ELISA kits. Data on potential risk factors were obtained using a questionnaire administered to the farmer at the time the blood samples were taken. The seroprevalences for BoHV-1 and BVDV were 64.4% and 47.8%, respectively. In the logistic regression analysis, the significant risk factors were rural district, herd size and cattle introduced to the farm. This study confirms the high seroprevalence of BoHV-1 and BVDV in unvaccinated cattle in Tamaulipas, Mexico. The results of this study could be used for the development of BoHV-1 and BVDV prevention and control program in North-Eastern, Mexico.


pmid: 24972811
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus infection induces autophagy in MDBK cells
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an enveloped, positive-sense, single-stranded RNA virus that belongs to the genus Pestivirus (Flaviviridae). The signaling pathways and levels of signaling molecules are altered in Madin-Darby Bovine Kidney (MDBK) cells infected with BVDV. Autophagy is a conservative biological degradation pathway that mainly eliminates and degrades damaged or superfluous organelles and macromolecular complexes for intracellular recycling in eukaryotic cells. Autophagy can also be induced as an effective response to maintain cellular homeostasis in response to different stresses, such as nutrient or growth factor deprivation, hypoxia, reactive oxygen species exposure and pathogen infection. However, the effects of BVDV infection on autophagy in MDBK cells remain unclear. Therefore, we performed an analysis of autophagic activity after BVDV NADL infection using real-time PCR, electron microscopy, laser confocal microscopy, and Western blotting analysis. The results demonstrated that BVDV NADL infection increased autophagic activity and significantly elevated the expression levels of the autophagy-related genes Beclin1 and ATG14 in MDBK cells. However, the knockdown of Beclin1 and ATG14 by RNA interference (RNAi) did not affect BVDV NADL infection-related autophagic activity. These findings provided a novel perspective to elaborate the effects of viral infection on the host cells.


pmid: 21683744
title: Comparative structural studies of bovine viral diarrhea virus IRES RNA
abstract: The internal ribosomal entry site (IRES) RNA of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has been implicated in virus propagation. To gain insight into the structure and potential function of the BVDV IRES RNA, we collected and aligned 663 of its sequences. Compensatory Watson-Crick and wobble G·U pairs were investigated to establish phylogenetically supported secondary structures for each of the BVDV IRES RNA sequences. The extensively folded BVDV IRES RNAs were composed of helices 2, 3 and 4. Helix 2 consisted of five helical sections. Helix 3 contained sections 3a to 3j as well as six helical insertions 3.1-3.6. Sections 3a and 3b together with helices 3.6 and 4 formed an RNA pseudoknot. Two highly variable regions corresponded to hairpins 3j and 3.4. Three-dimensional modeling of the BVDV-1b strain Osloss IRES RNA predicted an elongated structure with approximate dimensions of 170 Å by 65 Å by 90 Å. The model of the IRES RNA-ribosome complex suggested proximity between helix 2 of the BVDV IRES and ribosomal proteins S5 and S25.


pmid: 17353103
title: Experimental persistent infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus in white-tailed deer
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections cause substantial economic losses to the cattle industries. Persistently infected (PI) cattle are the most important reservoir for BVDV. White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) are the most abundant species of wild ruminants in the United States and contact between cattle and deer is common. If the outcome of fetal infection of white-tailed deer is similar to cattle, PI white-tailed deer may pose a threat to BVDV control programs. The objective of this study was to determine if experimental infection of pregnant white-tailed deer with BVDV would result in the birth of PI offspring. Nine female and one male white-tailed deer were captured and housed at a captive deer isolation facility. After natural mating had occurred, all does were inoculated intranasally at approximately 50 days of pregnancy with 10(6) CCID(50) each of a BVDV 1 (BJ) and BVDV 2 (PA131) strain. Although no clinical signs of BVDV infection were observed or abortions detected, only one pregnancy advanced to term. On day 167 post-inoculation, one doe delivered a live fawn and a mummified fetus. The fawn was translocated to an isolation facility to be hand-raised. The fawn was determined to be PI with BVDV 2 by serial virus isolation from serum and white blood cells, immunohistochemistry on skin biopsy, and RT-PCR. This is the first report of persistent infection of white-tailed deer with BVDV. Further research is needed to assess the impact of PI white-tailed deer on BVDV control programs in cattle.


pmid: 29882795
title: Fetal Hepatic Response to Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Infection in Utero
abstract: Non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (ncp BVDV) can cause persistent infection (PI) in animals infected in utero during early gestation. PI animals shed the virus for life and are the major source of the virus in herds. The mechanism responsible for BVDV immune tolerance in the PI fetus is unknown. We assessed the impact of BVDV infection on the fetal liver. Dams were inoculated with ncp BVDV at gestational day 75. Fetal liver samples were collected at necropsy, 7 and 14 days post-maternal-BVDV inoculation. BVDV antigen was not detected in the liver at gestational day 82 (7 days post-maternal inoculation). However, at 14 days post-maternal inoculation, BVDV was detected by immunohistochemistry in fetal Kupffer cells. Flow cytometry analysis showed a higher percentage of hepatic immune cells expressed MHC I and MHC II in BVDV-infected fetal liver (as compared to uninfected controls). Immunofluorescence was used to identify Kupffer cells, which were positive for BVDV antigen, near populations of CD3+ lymphocytes. The identification of BVDV in the fetal liver Kupffer cells at 14 days post inoculation is interesting in the context of establishment of tolerance in persistent infection. These data indicate the presence of a hepatic immune response to fetal infection.


pmid: 29859294
title: BVDV Npro protein mediates the BVDV induced immunosuppression through interaction with cellular S100A9 protein
abstract: The innate immune response is a vital part of the body's antiviral defense system. The innate immune response is initiated by various receptor interactions, including danger associated molecular patterns (DAMPs). The S100A9 is a member of the DAMPs protein family and, is released by activated phagocytic cells such as neutrophils, monocytes, macrophages or endothelial cells, and S100A9 induces its effect through TLR4/MyD88 pathway. Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is one of the major devastating disease in the cattle industry worldwide. It shows its effect through immunosuppression and develops persistent infection in calves born from infected cows. The current study revealed that BVDV potentially induced immunosuppression by the interaction of BVDV Npro protein with cellular S100A9 protein. The Inhibition of S100A9 protein expression by small interfering RNA (siRNA) enhanced the virus replication in infected cells. Overexpression of bovine S100A9 enhanced the ncpBVDV2a 1373 mediated Type-I interferon production. A co-immunoprecipitation experiment demonstrated a strong interaction between ncp BVDV2a 1373 Npro protein and cellular S100A9 protein. This suggested that BVDV Npro reduced the S100A9 protein availability/activity in infected cells, resulting in reduced Type-I interferon production. A further study of S100A9-BVDV interaction will be need for better understanding of BVDV pathophysiology.


pmid: 17447228
title: Onset of protection from experimental infection with type 2 bovine viral diarrhea virus following vaccination with a modified-live vaccine
abstract: The onset of protection after the administration of a modified-live bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) vaccine was determined. Protection was determined following experimental infection with a virulent type-2 BVDV (strain 1373) in cattle vaccinated 3, 5, or 7 days before BVDV infection. Protection, as measured by reduced virus shedding, lack of leukopenia, reduction in viremia, and reduced mortality, was present as early as 3 days after vaccination with a single dose of modified-live BVDV vaccine. Complete protection was obtained in cattle vaccinated 5 or 7 days before BVDV experimental infection.


pmid: 17359449
title: Aetiology of bovine abortion in Switzerland from 1986 to 1995--a retrospective study with emphasis on detection of Neospora caninum and Toxoplasma gondii by PCR
abstract: In a retrospective study, covering the period from 1986 to 1995, tissues of aborted fetuses were re-examined. A total of 347 cases were tested immunohistochemically, among them samples of 223 brains were examined for Neospora caninum, Toxoplasma gondii and Bovine Virus Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV), and 249 placentae for Chlamydiaceae. Two real-time PCR assays, one for N. caninum, and one for T. gondii, were developed. These potential abortion-inducing agents were detected - and confirmed by PCR, except for BVDV - in 16.1% (N. caninum), 0% (T. gondii), 9.9% (BVDV) and 0.8% (Chlamydiales) of the cases examined. Immunohistochemistry proved to be inadequate for the detection of the protozoal epitopes, whereas it was confirmed as a very useful tool for the detection of BVDV. In abortion material, PCR is considered to be more suitable for the detection of protozoa and Chlamydophila abortus, an adequate sampling presupposed.


pmid: 17046073
title: Development of an immunochromatographic test kit for rapid detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus antigen
abstract: An immunochromatographic test was developed for rapid diagnosis of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections using monoclonal antibodies against the nonstructural protein, NS3, of the virus. The kit detected specifically the NS3 of various BVDV strains. Using the kit, leukocyte extracts of cattle infected persistently with BVDV were found positive while those of healthy cattle were negative. The sensitivity and specificity of this kit in compared with virus isolation were 100% and 97.2%, respectively. Furthermore, the test also gave positive results for calves infected acutely with BVDV in experimental infection. The BVDV antigen was detected in 1 ml of blood using a relatively simple procedure. This test kit should be useful for rapid diagnosis of BVD.


pmid: 15062474
title: Origination and consequences of bovine viral diarrhea virus diversity
abstract: The potential consequences of BVDV genetic and antigenic diversity are far ranging. The complexity of clinical presentations associated with BVDV likely arises from factors encoded by the virus genome. More importantly,prevention and control of BVDV may be complicated by diagnostic and immunization failure resulting from virus diversity. Evolutionary pressures will continue to drive further diversity, making control of BVDV challenging. Current and the potential for future BVDV strain diversity should be considered when designing BVDV control programs both at the individual farm and national herd level.


pmid: 12737051
title: Epitopic characterisation of Turkish bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) isolates using monoclonal antibodies
abstract: In this study, 15 bovine viral diarrhoea viruses (BVDV) isolated from the field in Turkey were characterised for their biotype, cloned and eventually analysed for their epitopic composition in terms of glycoprotein E2. Immunoplaque assay, plaque assay, limiting dilution and streptavidin-biotin-peroxidase techniques were used for biotype characterisation, cloning of cytopathic (cp) and noncytopathic (ncp) biotypes and epitope analysis, respectively. While 14 out of 15 BVDV isolates were distinguished as ncp biotype, 1 isolate was found to be containing both biotypes (cp + ncp). According to the reactivity patterns of isolates with 15 monoclonal antibodies, 4 different antigenic groups could be formed. There were no antigenic differences between the isolates derived from the same animal with various time intervals. On the other hand, biotype clones isolated from the same animal exhibited difference in one epitope. This is the first study describing antigenic characterisation of BVDV field isolates in Turkey.


pmid: 9850992
title: A stable cell line with a proportion of cells persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Bovine turbinate (BTu) and lamb testis (LT) cell lines persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) arose as a result of a single change of medium containing commercial foetal calf serum. Infected cells comprise 30% and 50% respectively, of the total cell population, determined by immunohistochemical staining. The ratio of positive cells has remained unchanged during successive passages. Characterization of the persistently-infected BTu cells (BTuI) showed that only full length viral RNA was detected by northern blot hybridisation, indicating that DI particles were not involved. Secreted and intracellular virus from these cells was fully infectious for fresh BTu and LT cells. The BTuI cell line was fully permissive for a cytopathic BVDV isolate and a bovine herpesvirus, but non-permissive for two non-cytopathic BVDV isolates. Attempts to induce the permissive state in the BVDV-negative cells of the BTuI culture by treatment with actinomycin D and 5'-aza-cytidine failed. These cells provide a convenient model to study aspects of BVDV pathogenesis and replication.


pmid: 8861644
title: Identification of bovine viral diarrhea virus receptor in different cell types
abstract: Anti-idiotypic antibodies (anti-ids) have been used successfully in studies on bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) receptor(s) in our laboratory. The anti-ids specifically bound to cultured cells and identified a 50 kDa cellular membrane protein, which is thought to be a specific receptor for BVDV. In this study, flow cytometric analyses demonstrated that the anti-ids also specifically bound to different cell types, namely MDBK, EBK, BT, PK15, MA1O4, and Vero. Experiments on virus attachment and replication showed that BVDV adsorbed to all cells and replicated in them except monkey kidney cells MA 104 and Vero (non-permissive). Results from plaque reduction assays indicated that cellular membrane proteins from all cell lines competitively inhibited BVDV attachment to cultured MDBK cells, suggesting the presence of BVDV receptor on all cells. Immunoblotting of cell membrane proteins with the anti-ids revealed a 50 kDa protein in both permissive and nonpermissive cells. Subcloned or synchronized MDBK cells demonstrated no significant difference of binding with anti-ids as compared to normal cultured cells.


pmid: 16727166
title: Inactivation of bovine herpesvirus-1 and bovine viral diarrhea virus in association with preimplantation bovine embryos using photosensitive agents
abstract: Hematoporphyrin (HP), hematoporphyrin derivative (HPD), and thiopyronine (TP) are photosensitive agents (PSA) that have a germicidal effect when they are activated by light: helium neon laser (He/Ne) light (HP, HPD), white light (HP, HPD), and yellow-green light (TP). Experiments were conducted with appropriate controls to determine the effect of photosensitive agents a) for inactivating bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1; titre 10(6) TCID50/ml) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV; titre 10(6) TCID50/ml); b) for disinfecting Day-7, zona pellucida-intact (ZP-I) bovine embryos that had been exposed to BHV-1 (titre 10(6) TCID50/ml) or BVDV (titre 10(6) TCID50/ml); and c) on the in vitro development of embryos. Exposure to HP, HPD and TP followed by light irradiation inactivated BHV-1 and BVDV. Embryos exposed to BHV-I were disinfected by HP or HPD (5 microg/ml) in combination with He Ne light, or by HP or HPD (10 microg/ml) in combination with white light. Embryos exposed to BVDV were disinfected by HPD (5 and 10 microg/ml) followed by He Ne or white light irradiation. Exposure of embryos to light alone or to light and HP or HPD had no detrimental effect on their in vitro development; however, exposure of embryos to TP (5 microg/ml) followed by irradiation caused embryonic degeneration. Exposure of embryos to 5 microg of HPD followed by He Ne light, or 10 microg/ml of HP or HPD, followed by white light, is simple methods of disinfecting them of BHV-I and BVDV.


pmid: 7646359
title: The 5'-untranslated region sequence of a potential new genotype of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The 5' untranslated region (UTR) of several bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolates from the severe Quebec outbreak was amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and sequenced. Sequences revealed the loss, for the BVDV type II isolates, of an internal PstI restriction site, which is present in all known BVDV type 1 5' UTR sequences. A single restriction enzyme digestion (PstI) of an aliquot of PCR product allowed us to differentiate BVDV type I and BVDV type II.


pmid: 25447148
title: Efficacy of bovine viral diarrhea virus vaccination to prevent reproductive disease: a meta-analysis
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an important reproductive pathogen of cattle worldwide. The reproductive outcome of BVDV infection is largely dependent on the immune status of the dam and the stage of gestation at the time of infection. Potential sequelae include failure of conception, abortion, a variety of congenital malformations, and fetal infection. Vaccination is a possible tool in the control of BVDV, and there has been a recently renewed focus on providing fetal protection through vaccination. Consequently, the aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of BVDV vaccination to prevent reproductive disease by performing a quantitative synthesis of previously published studies. Pertinent articles to be included in the analysis were identified by performing a search in four relevant scientific databases (PubMed, CAB abstracts, National Agricultural Library catalog, and Web of Science) and examining the reference lists of 10 germane review articles. Inclusion criteria for the meta-analysis mandated that the studies were controlled, primary studies that included necessary data for use in the meta-analysis (e.g., group size, number of abortions). Forty-six studies in 41 separate articles matched the inclusion criteria. Risk ratio effect sizes were used in random effects, weighted meta-analyses to assess the impact of BVDV vaccination on three outcomes: risk of fetal infection, abortion risk, and pregnancy risk. Within each outcome, subanalyses were performed to evaluate the effect of a variety of interventions, including modified live, inactivated, polyvalent and monovalent vaccination, homologous, heterologous, or field challenge, and studies with only bovine subjects. The analysis revealed a decrease in abortions of nearly 45% and a nearly 85% decrease in fetal infection rate in cattle vaccinated for BVDV compared with unvaccinated cohorts. Additionally, pregnancy risk was increased by approximately 5% in field trials of BVDV vaccinates. This meta-analysis provides quantitative support for the benefit of vaccination in the prevention of BVDV-associated reproductive disease.


pmid: 28537239
title: [Translational efficiency of BVDV IRES and EMCV IRES for T7 RNA polymerase driven cytoplasmic expression in mammalian cell lines]
abstract: Mammalian T7 polymerase-based cytoplasmic expression systems are common tool for molecular studies. The majority of these systems include the internal ribosome entry site (IRES) of the encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV). To carry out a cap-independent translation process, this type of IRES might require the expression of an extensive array of host factors, what is a disadvantage. Other IRESes might be less dependent on the host cell factors, but their biology is characterized to a lesser degree. Here, we compare the translational efficiencies of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) IRES with that of ECMV. Both IRESes were tested in reporter vectors containing the T7 promoter, an IRES of choice and the coding sequence of the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP). To provide for the expression of T7 RNA polymerase, the corresponding gene was isolated from Escherichia coli and inserted into pCDNA3.1-Hygro(+). After co-transfection of the T7 RNA polymerase encoding vector with either of the two IRES-containing reporter vectors into T7 baby hamster kidney (T7-BHK), human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293T, chinese hamster ovary (CHO) and HeLa cells, the translational efficiency of the reporter construct was studied by fluorescence microscopy and flow cytometry. In T7-BHK, HEK 293T and HeLa cells the translational efficiency of BVDV IRES was two to three times higher than that of EMCV IRES. In CHO cells, BVDV IRES and EMCV IRES were equally efficient. An analysis of the secondary structure of respective mRNAs showed that their ΔG values were -544.00 and -469.40 kcal/mol for EMCV IRES and BVDV IRES harboring molecules, respectively. As EMCV IRES-containing mRNA is more stable, it is evident that other, still unidentified factors should be held responsible for the enhanced translational efficiency of BDVD IRES. Taken together, our results indicate the potential of BVDV IRES as a replacement for EMCV IRES, which is now commonly used for T7 polymerase driven cytoplasmic expression of genes of interest or virus cDNA rescue experiments.


pmid: 19875250
title: Modelling the spread of Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) in a managed metapopulation of cattle herds
abstract: In numerous epidemiological models developed within a metapopulation framework, it is assumed that a single infected individual introduced into a patch infects the whole patch and that the proportion of infected individuals into infected patches is consistent over time and among patches. If this approach is relevant for rapidly spreading pathogens, it is less appropriate for moderately spreading pathogens, like the Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV), characterized by a variability in within-patch prevalence. Our objective is to study the respective influence of neighbouring relationships and animal movements on the spread of BVDV in a managed metapopulation of 100 cattle herds. Infection dynamics is represented by two coupled stochastic compartmental models in discrete-time: a within-herd and a between-herd models. Animal movements are mechanistically modelled. They largely influence the BVDV persistence, the prevalence in infected herds and the epidemic size. Neighbouring relationships only influence epidemic size. Whatever the neighbouring relationships, the infection does not persist in the metapopulation without animal movement between herds. The proposed model can be easily adapted for different herd contact structures.


pmid: 17054022
title: Approach for qualitative validation using aggregated data for a stochastic simulation model of the spread of the bovine viral-diarrhoea virus in a dairy cattle herd
abstract: Qualitative validation consists in showing that a model is able to mimic available observed data. In population level biological models, the available data frequently represent a group status, such as pool testing, rather than the individual statuses. They are aggregated. Our objective was to explore an approach for qualitative validation of a model with aggregated data and to apply it to validate a stochastic model simulating the bovine viral-diarrhoea virus (BVDV) spread within a dairy cattle herd. Repeated measures of the level of BVDV-specific antibodies in the bulk-tank milk (total milk production of a herd) were used to summarise the BVDV herd status. First, a domain of validation was defined to ensure a comparison restricted to dynamics of pathogen spread well identified among observed aggregated data (new herd infection with a wide BVDV spread). For simulations, scenarios were defined and simulation outputs at the individual animal level were aggregated at the herd level using an aggregation function. Comparison was done only for observed data and simulated aggregated outputs that were in the domain of validation. The validity of our BVDV model was not rejected. Drawbacks and ways of improvement of the approach are discussed.


pmid: 25102030
title: Genetic diversity of bovine viral diarrhea viruses in commercial bovine serum batches of Chinese origin
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is often detected in commercial bovine serum. BVDV genetic diversity was investigated in commercial bovine serum of Chinese origin. Twenty-two batches of bovine serum were obtained from 10 suppliers with different geographic origins in China, and 20 batches of bovine serum were positive by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and sequencing. Phylogenetic reconstructions of partial 5'UTR sequences indicated that the samples examined in this work clustered within the BVDV type 1 and BVDV type 2 genotypes. Interestingly, 3 sample sequences clustered into CSFV. These results suggest a high genetic diversity in Chinese BVDV field isolates. This study will benefit epidemiological surveys of BVDV detected in China.


pmid: 23094581
title: Effects of interferon-tau on cattle persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: In this study, the antiviral effects of bovine interferon-tau (boIFN-tau) on bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were examined in vitro and in vivo. In the in vitro experiments, the replication of cytopathic and non-cytopathic BVDV was inhibited in the bovine cells treated with boIFN-tau. The replication of BVDV was completely suppressed by boIFN-tau at a concentration higher than 10(2) U/ml. In order to examine the effect of boIFN-tau on virus propagation in cattle persistently infected (PI) with non-cytopathic BVDV, boIFN-tau was subcutaneously administered to PI cattle at 10(5) U/kg or 10(6) U/kg body weight 5 times per week for 2 weeks. No physical abnormality such as depression was observed in the cattle during the experiment. The mean BVDV titers in the serum of the PI cattle decreased slightly during the boIFN-tau administration period with the dose of 10(6) U/kg. However, the BVDV titers in the serum returned to the pre-administration level after the final boIFN-tau administration. These results suggest that boIFN-tau demonstrates an anti-BVDV effect, reducing the BVDV level in serum transiently when injected into PI cattle.


pmid: 3013952
title: A technique to obviate the risk of inadvertent infection of cell cultures with bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: When bovine embryonic kidneys collected at the Gorgie Abattoir, Edinburgh were examined for evidence of infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), 11 out of 26 kidneys were found to be positive. A technique that detected the presence of inadvertent BVDV in cell cultures consisted of processing and digesting the kidneys to produce cell suspensions, adding dimethyl sulphoxide and dispersing the suspensions in small aliquots that were stored frozen at - 114 degrees C. One aliquot was cultured and screened for BVDV by indirect immuno-fluorescence and interference tests. Bovine embryonic kidney cells so processed retained their viability and virus susceptibility for 15 to 18 months. Selected stocks of "clean" cells only are then used for vaccine production or diagnostic purposes. The cytopathic NADL strain of BVDV multiplied in naturally infected cell cultures but the titres attained were significantly lower than in "clean" cell cultures.


pmid: 11204126
title: Virus neutralizing antibodies against a panel of 18 BVDV isolates in calves vaccinated with Rispoval RS-BVD
abstract: Seven of nine colostrum-deprived calves, free from infection with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV), were vaccinated with Rispoval RS-BVD on two occasions, 21 days apart, while the other two were kept as BVDV infection controls. The virus neutralizing (VN) serum antibodies induced by vaccination were tested for their ability to neutralize 18 European BVDV isolates, including laboratory reference strains and recent field isolates, both cytopathic and non-cytopathic biotypes as well as genotypes I and II. The strains were isolated in Belgium, France, Germany and the United Kingdom. While there were large variations in the vaccine-induced VN titres of the individual calves against all the strains, e.g. the titres against Osloss NCP, the European reference strain ranged from 1.7 to 6.7 (1:log2), serum from each animal was capable of neutralizing between nine and all 18 of the strains tested. Nevertheless, from the results of this study, it can be concluded that in colostrum-deprived BVDV seronegative calves, Rispoval RS-BVD can stimulate the production of VN antibodies capable of neutralizing a wide range of antigenically diverse European isolates of BVDV, including genotypes I and II.


pmid: 10730955
title: Comparison of virus isolation and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus in bulk milk tank samples
abstract: The use of a reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay to screen bulk milk tank samples for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has proven to be a sensitive and economical means to evaluate the lactating animals in a herd. The assay is capable of detecting the presence of a single persistently infected animal within a group of several hundred cows. Over a 3-year period, 144 samples from 97 farms were tested for BVDV using an RT-PCR assay in conjunction with a classical virus isolation (VI) procedure to measure the relative effectiveness of the techniques. Virus could be detected with both methods when the milk from a single persistently infected animal was diluted 1:600 with the milk from a herd of BVDV-negative animals. Based on individual farms, there was an overall prevalence of 12.4% BVDV infection, and the correlation between the 2 assays was 95.9%. In terms of sensitivity, specificity, and turnaround time, RT-PCR was superior to VI. However, of the 17 samples that were VI positive, 4 were RT-PCR negative. RT-PCR may not detect all naturally occurring BVDV isolates because they may contain minor sequence variations in the primer regions. VI and RT-PCR are both suitable for detection of BVDV in bulk milk samples when used independently, but to increase the probability of successful detection and to provide cross-checks against assay contamination, it is desirable to utilize both methods in parallel.


pmid: 9476225
title: Characterization of a bovine viral diarrhea virus isolated from roe deer in Germany
abstract: The 5' untranslated region (5' UTR) of cytopathogenic pestiviruses isolated from two seronegative roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) in northern Germany was partially sequenced and compared with those of 28 other pestiviruses. Due to the occurrence within a narrow location and the complete identity of the sequenced fragments from both roe deer isolates (SH9 and SH11) they seem to belong to the same bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV) strain called SH9/11. This strain is highly homologous (up to 93% identity) to "classical" BVDV strains. However, SH9/11 has characteristic variations in its 5' UTR distinct from all other pestiviruses analyzed in this study. Strain SH9/11 is more similar to BVDV group I than to group II, although it is clearly separated from all other cattle isolates tested. In monoclonal antibody (mAb)-typing studies, isolate SH9 reacted with one pestivirus-specific mAb (C16), with two BVDV specific mAbs (N2B12 and D5), and with one mAb (f48) raised against the E2 protein of classical swine fever virus out of a panel of 13 mAbs. The separate position of strain SH9/11 again was demonstrated by the unique reaction pattern of isolate SH9 when compared with other mAb f48-positive BVDV and BDV strains. All these results indicate that indicate that distinct BVDV strains might exist among freeranging roe deer in Germany.


pmid: 1321220
title: Baculovirus expression of pestivirus non-structural proteins
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) belongs to the pestivirus group, a genus within the Flaviviridae family. It possesses a positive-sense ssRNA genome with a single large open reading frame (ORF) encoding about 4000 amino acids. Here we report the continuation of our studies of pestivirus protein biogenesis, involving expression from the viral non-structural protein-encoding region. The 3'-terminal 60% of the BVDV ORF was cloned into a plasmid transfer vector which was then used to construct a recombinant baculovirus. Infection of Spodoptera frugiperda Sf9 cells with this recombinant virus resulted in the production of the expected mature viral proteins. Polyprotein processing by the BVDV p80 proteinase appeared to be nearly identical to that observed in authentic BVDV-infected bovine cells, and as previously shown to occur when expression of the same region was studied in a mammalian cell transient expression system. However, one viral proteolytic cleavage did not occur in the baculovirus-infected insect cells; the viral p80 proteinase failed to act at its own N terminus. This recombinant baculovirus/insect cell expression system provides an abundant source of BVDV non-structural proteins. Therefore we explored the utility of the proteins produced in this system for the detection of anti-BVDV antibodies in bovine sera. In preliminary experiments using these antigens in an ELISA we found a positive correlation between the presence of ELISA-reactive antibody and virus-neutralizing activity.


pmid: 25457262
title: First report of bovine viral diarrhoea virus-2 infection in cattle in Poland
abstract: This report describes the first identification in Poland of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV)-2 in a dairy herd where severe clinical disease with losses of young animals was observed. The virus was readily cultivated in cell culture and a phylogenetic analysis of the nucleotide sequences and secondary structures of the viral genomic 5' untranslated region confirmed virus identity. The economic impact of the infection was significant compared to the previously prevalent BVDV-1 infections confirming that this genotype of BVDV can cause severe sickness in affected herds. The use of BVDV-1 vaccine did not prevent the infection with the BVDV-2 genotype.


pmid: 17727807
title: Sequence-optimised E2 constructs from BVDV-1b and BVDV-2 for DNA immunisation in cattle
abstract: We report DNA immunisation experiments in cattle using plasmid constructs that encoded glycoprotein E2 from bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV)-1 (E2.1) and BVDV-2 (E2.2). The coding sequences were optimised for efficient expression in mammalian cells. A modified leader peptide sequence from protein gD of BoHV1 was inserted upstream of the E2 coding sequences for efficient membrane export of the proteins. Recombinant E2 were efficiently expressed in COS7 cells and they presented the native viral epitopes as judged by differential recognition by antisera from cattle infected with BVDV-1 or BVDV-2. Inoculation of pooled plasmid DNA in young cattle elicited antibodies capable of neutralising viral strains representing the major circulating BVDV genotypes.


pmid: 15964774
title: Dynamics of virus infections involved in the bovine respiratory disease complex in Swedish dairy herds
abstract: The dynamics of bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), bovine parainfluenza virus 3 (PIV-3), bovine corona virus (BCoV) and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infections were studied in 118 dairy herds in south western Sweden. By using serology on paired samples from three approximately 7 vs. approximately 15-month-old calves per herd, the propagation of infections was investigated over about a 1-year period. The results implied that at least 74% of calves had experienced one or more of the monitored infections at the age of approximately 7 months (Sample 1, Spring); 30%, 48%, 34% and 8% were seropositive to BRSV, PIV-3, BCoV and BVDV, respectively. Seroconversions to BRSV, PIV-3, BCoV and BVDV occurred in 26%, 38%, 50% and 3% of seronegative animals and 63% had antibodies against two or more infections at approximately 15 months (Sample 2). In total, 90-97% of animals that were seropositive in Sample 1 remained positive in Sample 2. A significant association was found between BVDV and BCoV (P = 0.01). Moreover, a significantly higher proportion of herds in which no calves had a recorded history of respiratory disease (n = 15) were classified as negative to all four infections monitored when compared to herds in which disease was observed (P = 0.0002). This study showed a high infection burden in young animals and effective spread of BRSV, PIV-3 and BCoV in one area of Sweden. BVDV infections were restricted to a few herds, reflecting the effect of a voluntary control program against BVDV in Sweden.


pmid: 15739620
title: Colorimetric lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assay for evaluation of antiviral activity against bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in vitro
abstract: A rapid and sensitive screening assay has been established for in vitro evaluation of antiviral compounds against bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), which is widely used as a surrogate for hepatitis C virus (HCV). The procedure is based on photospectrometrical assessment for the viability of virus-infected cells via extracellular leakage of lactic dehydrogenase (LDH). The level of LDH in culture supernatants of BVDV-infected Madin-Darby bovine kidney (MDBK) cells was significantly higher than those of mock-infected MDBK cells. Under optimized assay conditions, the LDH level was found to correlate well with the degree of viral replication. When the 50% effective concentrations (EC50s) of ribavirin, cyclosporine A and human interferon-alpha for BVDV replication were determined by the established LDH method and compared with those obtained by a conventional tetrazolium colorimetric (MTT) method, there was a complete correlation in EC50s between the two methods. Furthermore, a much higher ratio of background activity (noise) to sample activity (signal) could be achieved with the LDH method than with the MTT method, indicating that the present LDH assay permits a sensitive, rapid and reliable screening of compounds for their anti-BVDV activity and may be useful for the discovery of novel anti-HCV agents.


pmid: 19875250
title: Modelling the spread of Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) in a managed metapopulation of cattle herds
abstract: In numerous epidemiological models developed within a metapopulation framework, it is assumed that a single infected individual introduced into a patch infects the whole patch and that the proportion of infected individuals into infected patches is consistent over time and among patches. If this approach is relevant for rapidly spreading pathogens, it is less appropriate for moderately spreading pathogens, like the Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV), characterized by a variability in within-patch prevalence. Our objective is to study the respective influence of neighbouring relationships and animal movements on the spread of BVDV in a managed metapopulation of 100 cattle herds. Infection dynamics is represented by two coupled stochastic compartmental models in discrete-time: a within-herd and a between-herd models. Animal movements are mechanistically modelled. They largely influence the BVDV persistence, the prevalence in infected herds and the epidemic size. Neighbouring relationships only influence epidemic size. Whatever the neighbouring relationships, the infection does not persist in the metapopulation without animal movement between herds. The proposed model can be easily adapted for different herd contact structures.


pmid: 11566379
title: Epidemiological pattern and risk factors associated with bovine viral-diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection in a non-vaccinated dairy-cattle population from the Asturias region of Spain
abstract: A survey of bovine viral-diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection was carried out in a non-vaccinated cattle population from the Asturias region of Spain in 1997 to assess seroprevalence and identify risk factors associated with infection. Twenty-eight herds were included; 529 cows were bled. Information regarding the herd and each animal sampled were recorded through a personal interview with the farmer. The true prevalence was estimated to be 21%. According to the antibody-age profiles and the herd-management characteristics, no persistently infected animals were suspected at that time within the herds sampled. Random-effects logistic regression found two major factors associated with seropositivity: age and cow origin. Results suggested that BVDV infection could be controlled in that area by livestock-trade control (without vaccines). In addition, an increasing risk of abortion was not observed when cows were seropositive to both BVDV and Neospora caninum infections.


pmid: 30775291
title: Dual natural infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus -1 and -2 in a stillborn calf: tissue distribution and molecular characterization
abstract: Dual infections with both bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)-1 and -2 seem to be unusual. The aim of this study was to describe an infection with both BVDV genotypes in a stillborn calf. Virus isolation and phylogenetic analyses of the 5´UTR and NS5B regions confirmed the presence of BVDV-1b and -2b in spleen and lung, whereas BVDV-2b was also detected in brain, heart, liver, kidney and, fluid of cavities. These results confirm that dual infections with both BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 species can occur naturally and their tissue distribution can be different.


pmid: 18024733
title: Economic effects of exposure to bovine viral diarrhea virus on dairy herds in New Zealand
abstract: The economic loss to dairy farmers associated with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is believed to be high in New Zealand, but no estimates are yet available. The aim was therefore to estimate the economic loss associated with BVDV in dairy herds in New Zealand. Bulk tank milk (BTM) from a random sample of 590 herds from the Northland, Bay of Plenty, and Waikato regions was tested for antibody against BVDV. The inhibition percentage (sample to positive ratio), based on a threshold validated in an earlier study, was used to indicate herd-level infection. Herd reproductive indices, herd lactation-average somatic cell counts, and herd average production of milk solids were regressed on BTM inhibition percentage. Herd averages of the overall annual culling rate, the rate of culling because of failure to conceive, the proportion of physiological inter-service intervals, the first-service conception rate, the pregnancy rate at the end of mating, and somatic cell counts were not associated with BVDV antibody in BTM. Abortion rates, rates of calving induction, the time from calving to conception, and the number of services per conception increased, however, whereas milk production decreased with increasing BVDV antibody in BTM. The results indicated significant reproductive and production loss associated with the amount of BVDV antibody in BTM. Total loss attributable to infection with BVDV was similar to reports from other countries and estimated as NZ$87 per cow and year in affected herds, and NZ$44.5 million per year for the New Zealand dairy industry based on an estimated 14.6% affected herds. The loss estimate excludes added cost and negative consequences with respect to animal welfare attributable to increased induction rates, and a greater incidence of production disease because of BVD-induced immune suppression.


pmid: 17052865
title: Suppression of bovine viral diarrhea virus replication by small interfering RNA and short hairpin RNA-mediated RNA interference
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a ubiquitous viral pathogen that affects cattle herds' worldwide causing significant economic loss. The current strategies to control BVDV infection include vaccination (modified-live or killed) and control of virus spread by enhanced biosecurity management, however, the disease remains prevalent. With the discovery of the sequence-specific method of gene silencing known as RNA interference (RNAi), a new era in antiviral therapies has begun. Here we report the efficient inhibition of BVDV replication by small interfering (siRNA) and short hairpin RNA (shRNA)-mediated gene silencing. siRNAs were generated to target the 5' non-translated (NTR) region and the regions encoding the C, NS4B and NS5A proteins of the BVDV genome. The siRNAs were first validated using an EGFP/BVDV reporter system and were then shown to suppress BVDV-induced cytopathic effects and viral titers in cell culture with surprisingly different activities compared to the reporter system. Efficient viral suppression was then achieved by bovine 7SK-expressed BVDV-specific shRNAs. Overall, our results demonstrated the use of siRNA and shRNA-mediated gene silencing to achieve efficient inhibition of the replication of this virus in cell culture.


pmid: 15782665
title: Cytopathogenicity markers in the genome of Hungarian cytopathic isolates of bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Since genetic recombination is a major factor in the evolution of the cytopathogenic (cp) bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) biotypes, in this study the cytopathogenicity markers were investigated in the genomes of two cp BVDV strains recently isolated from mucosal disease (MD) cases in Hungary. In the genome of strain H4956, a Jiv-like insertion was found similar to those described in reference strain NADL and in other BVDV 1, BVDV 2 and border disease virus (BDV) strains. The 133 amino acid Jiv-like sequence is inserted at nucleotide position 4984 (amino acid position 1533), 9 nucleotides upstream of that of strain NADL. The insertion showed 96% amino acid sequence identity with the cellular Jiv protein. In the genome of cp BVDV strain H115/PCR, an ubiquitin-containing duplication was found. The duplicated sequence started at nucleotide position 7978 (amino acid 2531) in the NS4B gene. The duplication contained a complete ubiquitin monomer of 76 amino acids and the complete NS3 gene starting at nucleotide position 5153 (amino acid 1589), which corresponds to the first N-terminal amino acid of NS3. The duplication was located further downstream of the known ubiquitin-containing genomic regions of cp BVDV strains, and it consisted of the shortest inserted nucleotide sequence. The insertions and duplication of strains H4956 and H115/PCR further confirmed that recombinations occurring at positions A and B are the most common mechanisms leading to the development of BVDV cytopathogenicity.


pmid: 10028166
title: Distribution of viral antigen in uterus, placenta and foetus of cattle persistently infected with bovine virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: The tissue distribution and cellular localisation of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was investigated in the uterus, placentomes, intercotyledonary foetal membranes and foetal organs of three persistently infected (PI) pregnant heifers. The uterus and ovaries of a non-pregnant PI heifer were also included in the study. Cryostat sections were examined using immunohistochemical techniques and monoclonal antibodies against BVDV. A double immunofluorescence technique was used to identify BVDV positive cells that also showed staining for either the leukocyte common antigen CD45 or the cytoskeletal filament vimentin. BVDV antigen was detected in all the organs examined, and was present in both epithelial and non-epithelial cells. In all organs many of the virus-positive cells also showed reactivity for vimentin. In the foetal liver and spleen a small, scattered population of virus-positive cells showed reactivity for CD45. A few cells showed reactivity both for BVDV antigen and for CD45 in the placentomes and intercotyledonary foetal membranes. In contrast to earlier reports, only scattered cells in the foetal part of the placentomes, the cotyledons, showed reactivity for BVDV antigen. However, in the chorion of the intercotyledonary foetal membranes, a larger proportion of the trophoblast cells showed reactivity for BVDV, especially the binuclear trophoblast cells. In the uterus, pregnancy appeared to favour virus replication, as the section from the pregnant heifers showed much stronger staining and a higher proportion of viral antigen-positive cells than sections from the non-pregnant PI heifer.


pmid: 26919728
title: Transcriptomic analysis of responses to cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus-1 (BVDV-1) infection in MDBK cells
abstract: The bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is responsible for significant economic losses in the dairy and cattle industry; however, little is known about the protective and pathological responses of hosts to infection. The present study determined the principal molecular markers implicated in viral infection through meta-transcriptomic analysis using MDBK cells infected for two hours with a field isolate of BVDV-1. While several immune regulator genes were induced, genes involved in cell signaling, metabolic processes, development, and integrity were down-regulated, suggesting an isolation of infected cells from cell-to-cell interactions and responses to external signals. Analysis through RT-qPCR confirmed the expression of more than one hundred markers. Interestingly, there was a significant up-regulation of two negative NF-κB regulators, IER3 and TNFAIP3, indicating a possible blocking of this signaling pathway mediated by BVDV-1 infection. Additionally, several genes involved in the metabolism of reactive oxygen species were down-regulated, suggesting increased oxidative stress. Notably, a number of genes involved in cellular growth and development were also regulated during infection, including MTHFD1L, TGIF1, and Brachyury. Moreover, there was an increased expression of the genes β-catenin, caprin-2, GSK3β, and MMP-7, all of which are crucial to the Wnt signaling pathway that is implicated in the embryonic development of a variety of organisms. This meta-transcriptomic analysis provides the first data towards understanding the infection mechanisms of cytopathic BVDV-1 and the putative molecular relationship between viral and host components.


pmid: 23084809
title: Bovine maternal, fetal and neonatal responses to bovine viral diarrhea virus infections
abstract: Due to the affinity of BVDV for the fetus and for cells of lymphatic organs of infected cattle, reproductive failure or immunosuppression, respectively, are likely consequences of BVDV infections of susceptible cattle. Infection of susceptible pregnant cattle with noncytopathic (ncp) BVDV results in transplacental infection with induction of maternal and fetal innate and adaptive immune responses. Differences in maternal innate and adaptive immune responses are evident in late gestation between cows carrying fetuses persistently-infected (PI) with BVDV and cows with fetuses transiently-infected with BVDV. Fetal innate and adaptive immune responses to ncp BVDV infection are defined by fetal age and developmental stage of the fetal immune system. Since a functional fetal adaptive immune response does not occur in the early fetus, immunotolerance to ncp BVDV is established, virus replicates unrestricted in fetal tissues and calves are born immunotolerant and PI with the virus. In the last trimester of gestation, the fetal immune system is adequately developed to respond in an efficacious manner, most commonly resulting in the birth of a clinically normal calf with pre-colostral antibodies. Immunosuppression due to postnatal acute ncp BVDV infections of susceptible calves may contribute to the occurrence and severity of multi-factorial respiratory tract and enteric diseases.


pmid: 19617475
title: Experimental infection of white-tailed deer fawns (Odocoileus virginianus) with bovine viral diarrhea virus type-1 isolated from free-ranging white-tailed deer
abstract: The objective of the current study was to elucidate the within-host dynamics of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type-1 infection to better understand how this virus could be maintained in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus, WTD) populations. The BVDV type-1 used in this study was originally isolated from a free-ranging WTD in Indiana. Four fawns were intranasally inoculated with 2 ml BVDV type-1 strain 544 WTD at a 10(6) tissue culture infectious dose (TCID(50))/ml. Two fawns were inoculated with sham inoculum (negative controls). Animals were bled on days -7, 0, 1, 7, and 14 postinoculation (PID) for a complete blood count, chemistry panel, buffy coat (BC), real-time RT-PCR, and virus neutralization (VN). On days 7 and 14 PID, nasal and rectal swabs were obtained for RT-PCR and two of the virus-inoculated fawns and one of the negative controls fawns were euthanized. At necropsy, multiple samples were obtained for histopathology and in situ hybridization (ISH). Quantitative RT-PCR was performed on serum, BC, nasal, and rectal swabs. All animals tested negative for BVDV type 1 neutralizing antibodies on day 0 and animals in the control group remained seronegative throughout the study. No gross lesions were observed at necropsy. BVDV was isolated from lung and pooled lymph nodes from all BVDV-inoculated fawns on days 7 and 14 PID. Infected deer had lymphoid depletion, apoptosis, and lymphoid necrosis in the Peyer's patches and mesenteric lymph nodes. BVDV was detected in lymphoid tissues of infected animals by ISH. No lesions or virus were identified in control fawns. On day 7 PID, samples from two virus-inoculated fawns were positive for BVDV by virus isolation and RT-PCR from BC and nasal swab samples. One fawn was also positive on a rectal swab. Nasal and rectal swabs from all animals were negative on day 14. Results indicate that infection of WTD with BVDV is possible, and leads to histologic lesions in variety of tissues. In addition, virus shedding into the environment through feces and other secretions is likely.


pmid: 10864644
title: Generation and characterization of a hepatitis C virus NS3 protease-dependent bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Unique to pestiviruses, the N-terminal protein encoded by the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) genome is a cysteine protease (Npro) responsible for a self-cleavage that releases the N terminus of the core protein (C). This unique protease is dispensable for viral replication, and its coding region can be replaced by a ubiquitin gene directly fused in frame to the core. To develop an antiviral assay that allows the assessment of anti-hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS3 protease inhibitors, a chimeric BVDV in which the coding region of Npro was replaced by that of an NS4A cofactor-tethered HCV NS3 protease domain was generated. This cofactor-tethered HCV protease domain was linked in frame to the core protein of BVDV through an HCV NS5A-NS5B junction site and mimicked the proteolytic function of Npro in the release of BVDV core for capsid assembly. A similar chimeric construct was built with an inactive HCV NS3 protease to serve as a control. Genomic RNA transcripts derived from both chimeric clones, P(H/B) (wild-type HCV NS3 protease) and P(H/B(S139A)) (mutant HCV NS3 protease) were then transfected into bovine cells (MDBK). Only the RNA transcripts from the P(H/B) clone yielded viable viruses, whereas the mutant clone, P(H/B(S139A)), failed to produce any signs of infection, suggesting that the unprocessed fusion protein rendered the BVDV core protein defective in capsid assembly. Like the wild-type BVDV (NADL), the chimeric virus was cytopathic and formed plaques on the cell monolayer. Sequence and biochemical analyses confirmed the identity of the chimeric virus and further revealed variant viruses due to growth adaptation. Growth analysis revealed comparable replication kinetics between the wild-type and the chimeric BVDVs. Finally, to assess the genetic stability of the chimeric virus, an Npro-null BVDV (BVDV-Npro in which the entire Npro coding region was deleted) was produced. Although cytopathic, BVDV-Npro was highly defective in viral replication and growth, a finding consistent with the observed stability of the chimeric virus after serial passages.


pmid: 29907483
title: Comparative analysis of adaptive immune responses following experimental infections of cattle with bovine viral diarrhoea virus-1 and an Asiatic atypical ruminant pestivirus
abstract: Atypical ruminant pestiviruses are closely related to the two bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) species, BVDV-1 and BVDV-2. While there is evidence of cross-protective immune responses between BVDV-1 and BVDV-2, despite antigenic differences, there is little information on the antigenic cross-reactivity with atypical ruminant pestiviruses. The aim of this study was therefore to assess the specificity of antibody and T cell responses induced by experimental infection of calves with BVDV-1 strain Ho916, Th/04_KhonKaen (TKK), an Asiatic atypical ruminant pestivirus, or co-infection with both viruses. Homologous virus neutralization was observed in sera from both single virus infected and co-infected groups, while cross-neutralization was only observed in the TKK infected group. T cell IFN-γ responses to both viruses were observed in the TKK infected animals, whereas Ho916 infected calves responded better to homologous virus. Specifically, IFN-γ responses to viral non-structural protein, NS3, were observed in all infected groups while responses to viral glycoprotein, E2, were virus-specific. Broader antigen-specific cytokine responses were observed with similar trends between inoculation groups and virus species. The limited T cell and antibody immune reactivity of Ho916 inoculated animals to TKK suggests that animals vaccinated with current BVDV-1-based vaccines may not be protected against atypical ruminant pestiviruses.


pmid: 9210934
title: Insertion of cellular sequences in the genome of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The genomic sequences of four pestiviruses, two BVDV strains (Osloss and NADL, both of which are cytopathogenic) and two HCV strains, were analyzed. Comparative studies revealed the presence of small insertions of cellular sequences in the genomes of both BVDV strains; the insertions are located in a region coding for a nonstructural protein. Such insertions are not present in the HCV sequences. The insertion identified in BVDV Osloss encodes a complete ubiquitin-like element. The sequence inserted in the BVDV NADL genome shows no homology to a ubiquitin gene but is almost identical with another bovine mRNA sequence. Molecular characterization of a BVDV "pair", isolated from an animal with mucosal disease, led to the detection of a ubiquitin-like sequence in the genome of the cytopathogenic strain, but not of the noncytopathogenic strain. It is proposed that recombination between viral and cellular RNA leads to formation of cpBVDV genomes. This hypothesis has direct implications for the pathogenesis of mucosal disease.


pmid: 15159100
title: Different strains of noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) vary in their affinity for in vivo-derived bovine embryos
abstract: Washing procedures (without trypsin treatment) recommended by the International Embryo Transfer Society (IETS) for use on in vivo-derived embryos effectively removed a cytopathic strain (NADL) of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) after artificial exposure. However, these washing procedures have not been evaluated using other isolates of BVDV, including representative non-cytopathic strains. Thus, the objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of the IETS procedures following artificial exposure of in vivo-derived bovine embryos to two different strains and biotypes of BVDV. One hundred and twenty-nine zona pellucida-intact (ZP-I) morulae and blastocysts (MB) and 56 non-fertile and degenerated (NFD) ova were collected 7 days following exposure to bulls from 32, BVDV-negative, superovulated cows. After collection, all MB and NFD ova were washed according to IETS standards. Subsequently, half of the MB and NFD ova were exposed for 1h to approximately 10(6)-cell culture infective doses (50% endpoint) per milliliter of viral strain SD-1, and the other half were exposed to the same concentration of CD-87. After exposure, groups of > or =3 and < or = 10 MB or NFD ova were washed using methods that met or exceeded IETS standards. Then, the washed groups were sonicated, and sonicate fluids were assayed for presence of virus using virus isolation and a reverse transcription nested polymerase chain reaction. No virus was detected in any group of MB or NFD ova that had been exposed to the CD-87 isolate. However, virus was detected in association with 50% of the groups of MB and 33% of the groups of NFD ova that had been exposed to the SD-1 isolate. Therefore, standard embryo-washing procedures recommended by the IETS are more effective for removal of some isolates of BVDV than for others. It remains to be determined if the quantity of a high-affinity isolate of BVDV associated with individual washed embryos would infect recipients via the intrauterine route. Further, it should be determined if an alternative embryo processing procedure, washing and trypsin treatment, would be more effective for removal of high-affinity isolates.


pmid: 9210934
title: Insertion of cellular sequences in the genome of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The genomic sequences of four pestiviruses, two BVDV strains (Osloss and NADL, both of which are cytopathogenic) and two HCV strains, were analyzed. Comparative studies revealed the presence of small insertions of cellular sequences in the genomes of both BVDV strains; the insertions are located in a region coding for a nonstructural protein. Such insertions are not present in the HCV sequences. The insertion identified in BVDV Osloss encodes a complete ubiquitin-like element. The sequence inserted in the BVDV NADL genome shows no homology to a ubiquitin gene but is almost identical with another bovine mRNA sequence. Molecular characterization of a BVDV "pair", isolated from an animal with mucosal disease, led to the detection of a ubiquitin-like sequence in the genome of the cytopathogenic strain, but not of the noncytopathogenic strain. It is proposed that recombination between viral and cellular RNA leads to formation of cpBVDV genomes. This hypothesis has direct implications for the pathogenesis of mucosal disease.


pmid: 29778211
title: Serological survey for antibodies against pestiviruses in Wyoming domestic sheep
abstract: Pestiviruses including Bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 (BVDV-1), BVDV-2 and Border disease virus (BDV) have been reported in both sheep and cattle populations, together with the HoBi-like, an emerging group of pestiviruses. Pestivirus control programs in the United States have focused on the control of BVDV-1 and 2. The incidence of pestivirus infection in sheep in the United States and the risk of transmission between cattle and sheep populations are unknown. The aim of this study was to perform serological surveillance for pestivirus exposure in sheep from an important sheep producing state in the Unites States, Wyoming. For this, sera from 500 sheep, collected across the state of Wyoming (US) in 2015-2016, were examined by comparative virus neutralization assay against four species/proposed species of pestiviruses: BVDV-1, BVDV-2, BDV and HoBi-like virus. Rates of exposure varied between geographic regions within the state. The overall pestivirus prevalence of antibodies was 5.6%. Antibodies were most frequently detected against BVDV-1 (4%), and the highest antibody titers were also against BVDV-1. Data from this study highlights understanding of the dynamics of sheep pestivirus exposure, consideration of reference strains used for VN assays, transmission patterns, and potential vaccination history should be taken into account in implementation of control measures against pestiviruses in sheep and for successful BVDV control programs in cattle.


pmid: 33300298
title: A novel MHC-II targeted BVDV subunit vaccine induces a neutralizing immunological response in guinea pigs and cattle
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is a major cause of economic loss in the cattle industry, worldwide. Infection results in reduced productive performance, growth retardation, reduced milk production and increased susceptibility to other diseases leading to early culling of animals. There are two primary methods used to control the spread of BVDV: the elimination of persistently infected (PI) animals and vaccination. Currently, modified live or inactivated vaccines are used in BVDV vaccination programmes, but there are safety risks or insufficient protection, respectively, with these vaccines. Here, we report the development and efficacy of the first targeted subunit vaccine against BVDV. The core of the vaccine is the fusion of the BVDV structural protein, E2, to a single-chain antibody, APCH, together termed, APCH-E2. The APCH antibody targets the E2 antigen to the major histocompatibility type II molecule (MHC-II) present on antigen-presenting cells. Industrial production of the vaccine is carried out using the baculovirus expression vector system (BEVS) using single-use manufacturing technologies. This new subunit vaccine induces strong BVDV-specific neutralizing antibodies in guinea pigs and cattle. Importantly, in cattle with low levels of natural BVDV-specific neutralizing antibodies, the vaccine induced strong neutralizing antibody levels to above the protective threshold, as determined by a competition ELISA. The APCH-E2 vaccine induced a rapid and sustained neutralizing antibody response compared with a conventional vaccine in cattle.


pmid: 15720974
title: The bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) NS3 protein, when expressed alone in mammalian cells, induces apoptosis which correlates with caspase-8 and caspase-9 activation
abstract: The bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strains exist as two biotypes, cytopathic (cp) and noncytopathic (ncp), according to their effects on tissue culture cells. It has been previously reported that cell death associated to cp BVDV in vitro is mediated by apoptosis. Here, experiments were conducted to determine the involvement of the NS3 protein in the induction of apoptosis. The NS3- and NS3Delta50 (deleted from the NH2-terminal 50 amino acids)-cDNA encoding sequences of BVDV NADL cp reference strain were cloned into adenoviral vectors (AdV) from which the BVDV gene of interest could be expressed from a tetracycline-responsive promoter. A549tTA cells infected in vitro with NS3 or NS3Delta50-expressing AdV showed cytopathic changes characterized by cell rounding and detachment, and nucleus chromatin condensation. DNA fragmentation assays, cytochrome c release, and activation of cellular caspases performed on these infected cells clearly correlated with the observed cytopathic changes with apoptosis. The BVDV NS3Delta50-induced apoptotic process was inhibited by caspase-8- and -9-specific peptide inhibitors (Z-IETD-FMK and Z-LEHD-FMK). Furthermore, apoptosis was inhibited in cells expressing the R1 subunit of herpes simplex virus type 2 ribonucleotide reductase (HSV2-R1) or hsp70, two proteins which are known to inhibit apoptosis associated with caspase-8 activation and cytochrome c release-dependent caspase-9 activation, respectively. Given that HSV2-R1, a specific inhibitor of the caspase-8 activation pathway, efficiently suppressed apoptosis and also prevented caspase-9 activation, the overall results indicate that the BVDV NS3/NS3Delta50 induces apoptosis initiated by caspase-8 activation and subsequent cytochrome c release-dependent caspase-9 activation.


pmid: 9526857
title: Severe acute bovine viral diarrhea in Ontario, 1993-1995
abstract: In 1993, noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strains with enhanced virulence caused unprecedented outbreaks of severe acute bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) in dairy, beef, and veal herds in Ontario (Canada). Fever, pneumonia, diarrhea, and sudden death occurred in all age groups of cattle. Abortions often occurred in pregnant animals. Gross lesions in the alimentary tract were similar to those associated with mucosal disease, especially in animals >6 months of age. Cattle of all age groups had microscopic lesions in the alimentary tract similar to those seen with mucosal disease. The epidemic peaked in the summer of 1993, with 15% of all bovine accessions from diseased cattle presented to the diagnostic laboratory being associated with BVDV. The virus strains involved in the outbreak were analyzed using monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies and the polymerase chain reaction. The virus isolates from these outbreaks of severe disease were determined to be type 2 BVDV. Type 2 BVDV has been present in Ontario at least since 1981 without causing widespread outbreaks of severe acute BVD, which suggests that type 2 designation in itself does not imply enhanced virulence. Cattle properly vaccinated with type 1 BVDV vaccines appear to be protected from clinical disease.


pmid: 9129644
title: Molecular characterization of ovine pestiviruses
abstract: Forty-two ovine pestivirus isolates, collected over a period of 18 years, were compared by phylogenetic analysis. The viruses were mostly field isolates from Britain; two others originated from Sweden and two from New Zealand. RT-PCR products were obtained from two genomic regions, one within the 5'-noncoding (5'-NC) region, and the other encompassing parts of the p20 (Npro) and C coding regions. Direct sequencing of the 5'-NC PCR products, followed by computer-assisted phylogenetic analysis, divided the ovine pestiviruses into three main genotypes. The results demonstrated that sheep may naturally be infected not only with border disease virus (BDV), but also with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) types I and II. The BDV isolates segregated into two principal subtypes represented by the Moredun strain from Scotland and the 137/4 strain from England. The BVDV-I group was composed of three clusters, two of them represented by BVDV reference strains NADL and Osloss, respectively, and the third by ovine isolates D1120/1 and D1432/P. The grouping of ovine pestiviruses, based on comparative nucleotide sequence analysis of the 5'-NC region, was confirmed by comparative analysis of the p20 (Npro) and C coding regions, performed both at the nucleotide and at the amino acid level. The presence of three genotypes in sheep, including BVDV-I and BVDV-II, indicates the inadequacy of the current hostspecies-based nomenclature and classification of pestiviruses.


pmid: 2157576
title: A study of some pathogenetic aspects of bovine viral diarrhea virus infection
abstract: The cytopathic (CP) TVM-2 strain of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) induced in calves a severe disease, characterized by the clinical picture which is usually reported for the acute primary infection observed under natural conditions. In contrast, the calves inoculated with a different biotype of BVDV, the non-cytopathic (NCP) New York-1 strain, remained clinically normal with the only evidence of virus replication in these calves being the recovery of the virus from their pharyngeal swabbings and blood and also the detection of specific neutralizing antibody in their serums. When calves were immunosuppressed with dexamethasone (DMS), they underwent an overt systemic disease of such a severity that in most of the cases it ended with the death of the animals. This result was obtained with either the CP and the NCP strain of BVDV. Finally, the mixed infection that was obtained in the calves with the CP and the NCP BVDV did not result in any particular unexpected pathological situation. It was speculated that the immunosuppressive activity of BVDV could be a property peculiar to certain isolates of the virus.


pmid: 20553701
title: Experimental infection of early pregnant cows with bovine viral diarrhea virus: transmission of virus to the reproductive tract and conceptus
abstract: The objective of this study was to chronologically investigate the effect of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection on early pregnant cows before placenta formation. Six cows were intravenously inoculated with either BVDV (treated, n=4) or growth medium (control, n=2) (day 0) at day 26 of pregnancy. Two treated cows and one control cow were euthanized on day 3 post-infection and the remaining animals were euthanized on day 6. BVDV was isolated from maternal tissues such as lymphoid or reproductive tissues of treated animals on days 3 and 6 post-infection. Additionally, one treated cow autopsied on day 6 post-infection had evidence of infectious BVDV in the allantoic membranes, allantoic fluid and embryos. In three treated cows, a significant decline in progesterone concentration was also observed post-infection while in control cows they remained constant. Therefore, BVDV can infect bovine embryos before placenta formation and may affect progesterone profiles in cows during early pregnancy.


pmid: 2162163
title: Viral protein production in homogeneous and mixed infections of cytopathic and noncytopathic BVD virus
abstract: Experiments were conducted to examine dual infection of cultured cells with cytopathic and noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Cell monolayers infected with a noncytopathic BVDV isolate and subsequently superinfected with a cytopathic BVDV isolate were refractive to the cytopathic effects of the cytopathic BVDV isolate, as reported in the literature. Immunofluorescence staining of superinfected cultures with monoclonal antibodies specific for the cytopathic or the noncytopathic viral isolate, demonstrated that cells in superinfected cultures contained both viral biotypes. Immunoprecipitation was used to compare the temporal detection of viral induced polypeptides in superinfected cultures to that of cultures infected with a single viral biotype. In single cytopathic viral infections, viral induced polypeptides of 80 kDa and 53-56 kDa are detected simultaneously, but in superinfections a 4 h gap occurred between detection of the 53-56 kDa polypeptide and detection of the 80 kDa polypeptide.


pmid: 27083871
title: Pestivirus in alpine wild ruminants and sympatric livestock from the Cantabrian Mountains, Spain
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and Border disease virus (BDV) were investigated at the wildlife-livestock interface in the distribution area of chamois in the Cantabrian Mountains, North-Western Spain. From 2010 to 2014, sera from sympatric wild (n=167) and domestic (n=272) ruminants were analysed for pestivirus antibodies by cELISA, virus neutralisation test (VNT) and for the presence of pestiviral RNA using a reverse transcription (RT)-PCR. Results showed a higher seroprevalence in cattle (59.4 per cent, 13/13 of herds) than in domestic small ruminants (5.9 per cent sheep, 2/8 of flocks; 0 per cent goats of 4 flocks) and wildlife (10.8 per cent in red deer, 0 per cent in roe deer and 0 per cent in Cantabrian chamois). High VNT titres were detected in two cattle herds, suggesting the circulation of BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 strains. BVDV-1 RNA was detected in one cattle calf by RT-PCR and sequencing. Conversely to other similar grazing systems, sheep flocks did not play a relevant role in the pestivirus epidemiology in this region. Pestivirus infections in wild ruminants were sporadic and most probably dependent on a domestic source.


pmid: 16154369
title: Increased risk of BVDV infection of calves from pregnant dams on communal Alpine pastures in Switzerland
abstract: Skin biopsies and blood samples from 117 calves, the offspring of dams that had been pastured on communal Alpine pastures while pregnant, were examined for bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) antigen. Immunohistochemical evaluation of skin biopsy samples revealed BVDV antigen in nine (7.7%) calves, and ELISA testing of serum samples was positive for BVDV antigen in six (5.1%). Three calves with positive skin biopsy samples and negative serum results were < 11 days old; it was assumed that maternal antibody interfered with the ELISA testing. Serum samples that were collected at a later date from two of the three calves were positive for BVDV antigen. These results were significantly different from those of a previous study in which the prevalence of persistently infected calves in an average Swiss cattle population was 0.64%. It was concluded that the risk of infection with BVDV is high in cattle sharing a communal Alpine pasture.


pmid: 7747428
title: Isolation of a mutant MDBK cell line resistant to bovine viral diarrhea virus infection due to a block in viral entry
abstract: A cell line, termed CRIB, resistant to infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has been derived from the MDBK bovine kidney cell line. CRIB cells were obtained by selection and cloning of cells surviving infection with a highly cytolytic BVDV strain. CRIB cells contain no detectable infectious or defective BVDV as ascertained by cocultivation, animal inoculation, indirect immunofluorescence, Western immunoblot, Northern hybridization, and RNA PCR. Inoculation of CRIB cells with 24 cytopathic and noncytopathic BVDV strains does not result in expression of viral genes or amplification of input virus. Karyotype and isoenzyme analyses demonstrated that CRIB are genuine bovine cells. CRIB cells are as susceptible as the parental MDBK cells to 10 other bovine viruses, indicating that these cells do not have a broad defect blocking viral replication. Transfection of CRIB cells with BVDV RNA or virus inoculation in the presence of polyethylene-glycol results in productive infection, indicating that the defect of CRIB cells is at the level of virus entry. CRIB cells are the first bovine cells reported to be resistant to BVDV infection in vitro and may be a useful tool for studying the early interactions of pestiviruses with host cells.


pmid: 24326794
title: Perosomus elumbis in a Holstein calf infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in a female Holstein calf presented with perosomus elumbis, a congenital anomaly, is reported here. A cow with dystocia was evaluated and an abnormal dead calf was detected during vaginal examination. The calf was retrieved via caesarean section and exhibited abnormalities characteristic of PE, such as vertebral and pelvic malformations. These abnormalities were further confirmed using radiographic and necropsy examinations. At necropsy cerebellar hypoplasia was an additional finding, which is a typical lesion associated with bovine virus diarrhea (BVD). Several tissue samples from the calf were tested for the presence of antigens of BVDV and bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1) by ELISA. In addition, sera samples from the dam and calf were tested for the presence of antibodies against BVDV, BHV-1, and bluetongue disease virus (BTV) using a virus neutralization assay. Results indicated that the calf was congenitally infected with BVDV, whereas there was no evidence for the presence of BHV-1 and BTV. In the dam's serum no antibodies against BVDV, BHV-1, and BTV were detected. Even though the etiology of perosomus elumbis is unknown, BVDV, which causes fetal anomalies at early gestation in cows, may have been a contributing factor in this case.


pmid: 21965453
title: Inactivation at various temperatures of bovine viral diarrhea virus in beef derived from persistently infected cattle
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a pestivirus that is enzootic in most cattle populations throughout the world. This virus is present throughout the body of persistently infected (PI) cattle. Previous research has not assessed the cooking temperature at which BVDV in meat from PI cattle can be inactivated. Therefore, muscle tissue from 6 PI cattle was harvested, refrigerated, frozen, and heated to various internal temperatures. The concentration of virus present was determined by virus isolation. Average cell culture infective doses (50% endpoint; CCID(50)) of BVDV per gram of frozen, uncooked meat from PI cattle were 10(5.85) CCID(50)/g of whole cuts and 10(6.02) CCID(50)/g of ground meat. The virus in whole and ground meat was consistently inactivated when cooked to temperatures greater than or equal to 75°C. A second objective of this research was to thoroughly reassess if Vero cells were permissive to BVDV infection in our laboratory to provide further indication of whether primates, including humans, might be susceptible to BVDV. Vero cells were not permissive to infection with any of 43 different strains of BVDV that readily replicated in Madin Darby bovine kidney cells. In conclusion, this bovine pathogen, which is not considered to be a human pathogen, can be inactivated by cooking ground or whole cuts of meat to 75°C or higher. Care should be taken to ensure that susceptible hosts such as pigs are not fed improperly cooked meat, meat by-products, or waste food originating from PI cattle.


pmid: 20036078
title: Genotyping of bovine viral diarrhea viruses from cattle in China between 2005 and 2008
abstract: Eighteen bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) from cattle in China between 2005 and 2008 were genetically typed by sequencing of the 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) of the viral genome and for selected isolates the N(pro) region. Phylogenetic reconstructions indicated that all of the 18 BVDV positive samples examined in this work clustered within the BVDV type 1 genotype. Of the 15 previously described subgenotypes of BVDV1 (1a-1o), 12 of the samples examined in this work clustered with the Chinese BVDV ZM-95 strain of pig origin, which was the prototype of BVDV1m, while 2 samples clustered with the BVDV1b. But 4 samples formed a separate group appearing to be a potentially new subgenotype, which was tentatively typed as "BVDV1p". Based on these results there appears to be highly genetic variation within the Chinese BVDV field isolates. As well, the phylogenetic reconstructions indicate that the clustering of the Chinese BVDV1m subgenotype in the phylogenetic tree is a result of geographic isolation. The information obtained from this work will be useful when carrying out epidemiological surveys of BVDV detected in China, especially for the BVDV1m detection in Chinese cattle.


pmid: 19833455
title: Epidemiology and control of BVD in the U.S
abstract: The apparent prevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) persistently infected cattle has been found to be low in U.S. dairies, beef herds and feedlots. Current management practices within U.S. cattle industries that impact the epidemiology of BVDV infections include purchasing untested cattle, lack of biosecurity procedures, large herd sizes, mixing cattle from multiple sources, high cattle densities in dairy and feedlot operations, synchronous breeding of beef herds, communal grazing and widespread vaccination. Evidence for BVDV infection has been found in farmed and free-ranging wildlife in North America; however the risk of BVDV transmission from wildlife to cattle is not known. The perception of a low prevalence of BVDV herd infections, the unrestricted sale of PI cattle, lack of economic data, intensive marketing of vaccines, reluctance to accept federal regulations, and a "gambler's" attitude among producers are impediments to implementation of a national systematic BVD control program. Since 2004, voluntary BVDV control programs have been organized in nine states reflecting the recognition of BVD as an important and preventable problem in the U.S.


pmid: 19623897
title: Evaluation of experimental vaccines for bovine viral diarrhea in bovines, ovines and guinea pigs
abstract: The bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection control should be based on elimination of persistently infected animals and on immunization through vaccination, to prevent fetal infection. However, the efficacy of inactivated BVDV vaccines is variable due to its low immunogenicity. This study evaluated the humoral immune response against homologous and heterologous strains of 7 inactivated BVDV vaccines, in bovines and two experimental models (ovine and guinea pig) which might be used to test candidate vaccines. Vaccines formulated with BVDV Singer, Oregon, NADL, and multivalent, induced seroconversion in the three animal models studied, reaching antibody titres higher than 2. Vaccine containing 125C -genotype 2- only induced a low antibody response in ovine, while VS-115 NCP vaccine was not immunogenic. Furthermore, bovine sera at 60 dpv presented homologous as well as heterologous antibody response, indicating a high degree of cross-reactivity among the strains studied. However, when bovine sera were tested against the Argentine field strain 00-693, they showed the lowest levels of cross-reactivity, suggesting the need of continued surveillance to identify and characterize emerging field BVDV strains. Finally, optimal correlations between bovine-ovine and bovine-guinea pig models were observed, indicating that two alternative species could replace bovines when testing the immunogenicity of BVDV candidate vaccines.


pmid: 27154218
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in dairy cattle herds in northeast Thailand
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus causes a wide range of clinical manifestation with subsequent economic losses in dairy production worldwide. Our study of a population of dairy cattle in Thailand based on 933 bulk tank milk samples from nine public milk collection centers aimed to monitor infective status and to evaluate the effect of the infection in cows as well as to examine the reproductive performance of heifers to provide effective recommendations for disease control in Thailand. The results showed a moderate antibody-positive prevalence in the herd (62.5 %), with the proportion of class-3 herd, actively infected stage, being 17.3 %. Fourteen persistently infected (PI) animals were identified among 1196 young animals from the class-3 herds. Most of the identified PI animals, 11/14, were born in one sub-area where bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) investigation has not been performed to date. With respect to reproductive performance, class-3 herds also showed higher median values of reproductive indices than those of class-0 herds. Cows and heifers in class-3 herds had higher odds ratio of calving interval (CI) and age at first service (AFS) above the median, respectively, compared to class-0 herds (OR = 1.29; P = 0.02 and OR = 1.63; P = 0.02). Our study showed that PI animals were still in the area that was previously studied. Furthermore, a newly studied area had a high prevalence of BVDV infection and the infection affected the reproductive performance of cows and heifers. Although 37.5 % of the population was free of BVDV, the lack of official disease prevention and less awareness of herd biosecurity may have resulted in continuing viral spread and silent economic losses have potentially occurred due to BVDV. We found that BVDV is still circulating in the region and, hence, a national control program is required.


pmid: 22520818
title: Distribution of bovine viral diarrhoea virus antigen in persistently infected white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus)
abstract: Infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), analogous to that occurring in cattle, is reported rarely in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). This study evaluated the distribution of BVDV antigen in persistently infected (PI) white-tailed deer and compared the findings with those from PI cattle. Six PI fawns (four live-born and two stillborn) from does exposed experimentally to either BVDV-1 or BVDV-2 were evaluated. Distribution and intensity of antigen expression in tissues was evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Data were analyzed in binary fashion with a proportional odds model. Viral antigen was distributed widely and was present in all 11 organ systems. Hepatobiliary, integumentary and reproductive systems were respectively 11.8, 15.4 and 21.6 times more likely to have higher antigen scores than the musculoskeletal system. Pronounced labelling occurred in epithelial tissues, which were 1.9-3.0 times likelier than other tissues to contain BVDV antigen. Antigen was present in >90% of samples of liver and skin, suggesting that skin biopsy samples are appropriate for BVDV diagnosis. Moderate to severe lymphoid depletion was detected and may hamper reliable detection of BVDV in lymphoid organs. Muscle tissue contained little antigen, except for in the cardiovascular system. Antigen was present infrequently in connective tissues. In nervous tissues, antigen expression frequency was 0.3-0.67. In the central nervous system (CNS), antigen was present in neurons and non-neuronal cells, including microglia, emphasizing that the CNS is a primary target for fetal BVDV infection. BVDV antigen distribution in PI white-tailed deer is similar to that in PI cattle.


pmid: 15367643
title: Temporal modulation of an autoprotease is crucial for replication and pathogenicity of an RNA virus
abstract: Pestiviruses belong to the family Flaviviridae, and their genome is a single-stranded RNA of positive polarity encoding one large polyprotein which is further processed into mature proteins. Noncytopathogenic (noncp) strains of the pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) can establish persistent infection. In persistently infected animals, noncp BVDVs occasionally acquire mutations in viral nonstructural protein 2 (NS2) that give rise to cytopathogenic (cp) BVDV variants, and, eventually, lead to the onset of lethal disease. A molecular marker of cp BVDV infection is a high-level expression of the replicative NS3 protease/helicase that together with NS2 is derived from NS2-3. Here, we present evidence for NS2-3 autoprocessing by a newly identified cysteine protease in NS2 that is distantly related to the NS2-3 autoprotease of hepatitis C and GB viruses. The vital role of this autoprotease in BVDV infection was established, implying an essential function for NS3 in pestiviral RNA replication which cannot be supplied by its NS2-3 precursor. Accordingly, and contrary to a current paradigm, we detected almost complete cleavage of NS2-3 in noncp BVDV at early hours of infection. At 6 to 9 h postinfection, NS2-3 autoprocessing diminished to barely detectable levels for noncp BVDV but decreased only moderately for cp BVDV. Viral RNA synthesis rates strictly correlated with different NS3 levels in noncp and cp BVDV-infected cells, implicating the NS2 autoprotease in RNA replication control. The biotype-specific modulation of NS2-3 autoprocessing indicates a crucial role of the NS2 autoprotease in the pathogenicity of BVDV.


pmid: 18689667
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus multiorgan infection in two white-tailed deer in southeastern South Dakota
abstract: The susceptibility of wild ruminants, especially cervids, to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has remained an enigma. Two white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) were submitted to the Animal Disease Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (ADRDL) in the fall of 2003 by the South Dakota Game Fish and Parks for chronic wasting disease (CWD) testing. Both animals were CWD negative. The animals were necropsied and histopathology, viral antigen detection, and virus isolation were performed. A noncytopathic (NCP) BVDV was isolated from the lungs and several other tissues of both animals. Formalin-fixed ear notches from both animals were positive for BVDV antigen by immunohistochemistry. The BVDV isolates were typed with the use of polymerase chain reaction in 5' untranslated region (UTR) and one isolate was typed a Type 2a and the other a Type 1b. Future field surveys to determine the incidence of BVDV along with experimental studies to determine if white-tailed deer fawns can be persistently infected with BVDV are needed.


pmid: 17512989
title: Truncated E2 of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) expressed in Drosophila melanogaster cells: a candidate antigen for a BVDV ELISA
abstract: A simple and reliable indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for detection of antibodies directed against a major bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) immunogen, the E2 glycoprotein (tE2-ELISA), has been developed using the recombinant C-terminal truncated E2 glycoprotein (tE2) expressed in a Drosophila melanogaster system. This strategy demonstrated that tE2 is secreted efficiently in the supernatant, no purification steps are necessary, it is easy to produce and carries out the post translational modifications necessary to preserve its native conformation. Preliminary analysis of 183 cattle serum samples using tE2-ELISA showed a 98% specificity and a 100% sensitivity compared with the standard homologous BVDV virus neutralization test. The results also showed that the tE2 is immunoreactive because the conformation and antigenicity of the original E2 are maintained to a large extent. To our knowledge this is the first study report of the recombinant tE2 of BVDV expressed in D. melanogaster system as an antigen for ELISA.


pmid: 15663078
title: BVDV and BHV-1 infections in dairy herds in northern and northeastern Thailand
abstract: Bulk milk samples from 220 dairy herds were collected at 9 public milk collection centres in the northeastern and northern Thailand, and a subset of 11 herds was selected for individual testing. The samples were tested for presence of antibodies to BVDV and BHV-1 using an indirect ELISA. The results from the bulk milk testing demonstrated a moderate level of exposure to BVDV and BHV-1 (73% and 67%, respectively). However, the low proportion of herds with high BVDV antibody-levels (13%) and the low within-herd seroprevalence of BVDV and BHV-1 in the 11 herds (24% and 5%, respectively), particularly among the young stock (15% and 0%, respectively), demonstrated a low prevalence of active BVDV infection and a low rate of reactivation of latent BHV-1. The presence of a self-clearance process was also indicated by the results from the individual testing. Moreover, a surprisingly low prevalence of BVDV and BHV-1 antibody-positive herds at one of the milk centres was found. This centre was established 5-10 years before the others. Our impression is that this reflects the self-clearance process, where consecutive replacement of imported infected animals without further spread has resulted in a nearly total elimination of the infections. Based on our experiences and on these results we are convinced that this process can continue if there is awareness of herd biosecurity. This is especially important in the context of a future intensification of the dairy production.


pmid: 12680649
title: Seroprevalence of OHV-2, BVDV, BHV-1, and BRSV in ranch-raised bison (Bison bison)
abstract: Serum samples were collected at slaughter from 226 24-30-month-old American bison (Bison bison) bulls from Kansas, Minnesota, North Dakota, and Manitoba and assayed for antibodies to ovine herpesvirus type-2 (OHV-2), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine herpesvirus type-1 (BHV-1), and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV). Antibodies were detected by serum neutralization for BVDV, BHV-1, and BRSV, while antibodies to OHV-2 were detected by competitive inhibition-ELISA (CI-ELISA). Detectable antibodies were found against all viruses: 10 of 226 (4.40%) against OHV-2, 125 of 226 (55.3%) against BVDV, 99 of 226 (43.8%) against BHV-1, and 208 of 226 (92.0%) against BRSV. Titers from 93.6% of the BVDV-positive animals, 79.8% of the BHV-1-positive animals, and 98.1% of the BRSV-positive animals were > or = 1.25. These data indicate that a low percentage of clinically normal bison are seropositive for OHV-2 while a high percentage of bison sampled are seropositive for BVDV, BHV-1, and BRSV.


pmid: 9628223
title: A novel nested reverse transcription PCR detects bovine viral diarrhoea virus in fluids from aborted bovine fetuses
abstract: A nested reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) was developed to detect pestivirus nucleic acid in fetal fluids and to study the number of bovine abortions associated with BVDV infection. Three techniques for the extraction of viral RNA from fetal fluids were compared; phenol:chloroform method, treatment with Catrimox-14 followed by guanidium isothiocyanate buffer and the Qiagen total RNA kit. The Qiagen kit was the most sensitive and reproducible and therefore adopted. After cDNA synthesis, initial amplification of a 288-base pair product using existing primers derived from the highly conserved 5'-untranslated region of the BVDV genome was achieved. Newly designed internal primers yielded a 171-base pair fragment which was visualised after electrophoresis on an ethidium bromide-stained gel. This assay detected 6.0 TCID50 of BVDV per 300 microl of artificially contaminated fetal fluid. One hundred fetal fluids were screened for the presence of BVDV RNA and the results compared with existing virus isolation methods. The BVDV antibody status of each fetus was determined. The nested RT-PCR detected BVDV RNA in eight of the hundred fetal fluids screened, whereas BVD virus was isolated from only one sample. The use of the nested RT-PCR will provide us with a more accurate picture of bovine embryonic infection due to BVDV.


pmid: 22819267
title: Immunology of chronic BVDV infections
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus can maintain prolonged infections within immunoprivileged sites after an otherwise transient infection of a cow, calf, or bull. Various sites provide unique niches for viral replication which are not susceptible to the complete surveillance commonly provided by the bovine immune system. Evidence indicates that pestiviral infections may be significantly prolonged within ovarian tissue, testicular tissue, central nervous system tissue, and circulating white blood cells. Within avascular portions of the ovarian follicle, granulosa cells and oocytes may maintain BVDV infections which cannot be attacked by cell-mediated immunity. When infections occur within seminiferous tubules in testicular tissue, similar protection from the immune system is provided for BVDV by the blood-testes barrier. Likewise, the blood-brain barrier has been hypothesized to provide protection for BVDV in a case involving neuropathology associated with immunohistochemical detection of BVDV. Furthermore, infections of circulating white blood cells may perturb their stimulation of an adaptive immune response and facilitate chronic infection of these cells. Thus, BVDV has demonstrated an ability to maintain prolonged viral infections in immunoprivileged sites within its natural host. The role of chronic infections in maintaining and disseminating BVDV within the cattle population and heterologous host species remains to be fully understood.


pmid: 21257213
title: Survey on management practices related to the prevention and control of bovine viral diarrhea virus on dairy farms in Indiana, United States
abstract: The objective of this cross-sectional study was to describe the application of management practices known to be associated with the prevention of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection on Indiana dairy farms and to determine the extent of BVDV vaccine use within Indiana dairy herds. The population in this study was Indiana dairy producers enrolled under the Indiana Premise ID list by the Indiana State Board of Animal Health (n=1600). During the fall of 2008 a questionnaire was mailed to Indiana dairy producers. Returned questionnaires were entered into a database and descriptive statistics were performed. A total of 208 questionnaires were found useful for analysis. Small herds (<100 head) constituted 60% of the sample population, 33% farms were categorized as medium herds (100-499 head) and finally 7% were large herds (>500 head). Most of the herds (68%) acquired their replacements from external sources (open herds); however, preventive measures against the introduction of BVDV into the farm such as purchased animal history, quarantine and BVDV testing were not commonly performed. Even though producers commonly reported the use of BVDV vaccines, not all animals groups were vaccinated within herds. This study highlights the aspects of management practices of BVDV control on Indiana dairy farms that need reinforcement. In particular, dairy producers should be made aware that vaccination should be complementary to a comprehensive biosecurity program.


pmid: 2560281
title: Antigenic differentiation of pestivirus strains with monoclonal antibodies against hog cholera virus
abstract: Thirty-one bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) or border disease virus (BDV) strains and 94 hog cholera virus (HCV) strains were grown in cell culture, and characterized by immunostaining with 13 monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) and one polyclonal serum (PAb) against HCV. All 125 strains were recognized by the PAb. None of the BVDV or BDV strains were detected by the 13 MAbs. Seven MAbs detected all 94 HCV strains. Six other MAbs detected heterogeneity among and within HCV strains. The MAbs are useful tools in differentiating between HCV and BVDV infections in pigs, and can also be used to differentiate infections induced by HCV field strains from infections induced by the "Chinese" strain of vaccine virus.


pmid: 25999576
title: Full-length coding sequences for 12 bovine viral diarrhea virus isolates from persistently infected cattle in a feedyard in kansas
abstract: We report here the full-length coding sequences of 12 bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolates from persistently infected cattle in a feedyard in southwest KS. These 12 genomes represent the three major subtypes of BVDV (BVDV-1a, 1b, and 2a) currently circulating in the United States.


pmid: 25465669
title: Polymorphic genetic characterization of E2 gene of bovine viral diarrhea virus in China
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is one of the wide distributed pathogenic viruses of livestock and wild animals worldwide. E2 glycoprotein is a major structural component of the BVDV virion and plays a key role in viral attachment to host cells and inducing immune responses against viral infection. In order to gain detailed information of the E2 coding region of BVDV circulating in China, 46 positive samples were tested by RT-PCR for the E2 coding region. The 1122 nt nucleotide sequences of full-length E2 were harvested and analyzed. The results suggested that full-length E2 was an ideal target for BVDV genotyping and divided the domestic BVDV isolates into 9 subgenotypes, namely BVDV-1a, -1b1, -1c, -1d, -1o, -1m, -1p, -1q and BVDV-2a, showing great diversity. The difference of nonsynonymous and synonymous substitution rates (dN-dS) inferred both positive and purifying selection of the E2. However, combination of positive and purifying selection at different points indicated purifying selection within the complete E2. Protein properties analysis based on glycosylation sites and epitope prediction demonstrated that the biological character of E2 among individual BVDV subgenotype was similar, but may alter due to amino acid changes. For the first time, the comprehensive collection of E2 sequences of Chinese BVDV isolates was elucidated, which would provide information for future vaccine design and BVD control in China.


pmid: 2276963
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus-induced cerebellar disease in a calf
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was isolated from buffy coat cells of a 10-day-old calf with signs of cerebellar disease--ataxia, hypermetria, and intention head tremor. The tentative diagnosis was BVDV-induced cerebellar hypoplasia. At necropsy, gross lesions were not identified. Histologic findings suggested BVDV-induced diffuse hypomyelination throughout the CNS, as reported in the United Kingdom and The Netherlands.


pmid: 9210931
title: A study of some pathogenetic aspects of bovine viral diarrhea virus infection
abstract: The cytopathic (CP) strain TVM-2 of bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV) induced in calves a severe disease, whereas the calves inoculated with the non-cytopathic (NCP) New York-1 strain, remained clinically normal. When calves were immunosuppressed with dexamethasone (DMS) they underwent an overt, generally fatal disease. This result was obtained with either the CP and the NCP strain of BVDV. It was speculated that the immunosuppressive activity of BVDV could be a property peculiar to certain isolates of the virus.


pmid: 10436933
title: Recombinant adenoviruses expressing the E2 protein of bovine viral diarrhea virus induce humoral and cellular immune responses
abstract: The E2 protein of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a major viral glycoprotein and an attractive target for BVDV vaccines. Three replication defective recombinant adenoviruses expressing the BVDV/E2 protein (rAds/E2) were constructed. Two contain a constitutive promoter, and one an inducible promoter. All three recombinant adenoviruses induced very strong BVDV specific antibody responses in a mouse model as detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA) and neutralization tests. Induction of cellular immune responses was investigated in two recombinant adenoviruses with a constitutive promoter. The mononuclear cells from the immunized mice demonstrated a proliferative response after in vitro stimulation with an homologous BVDV strain, but only one of them induced the production of IFN-gamma.


pmid: 7578446
title: Application of antibody titers against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) as a measure to detect herds with cattle persistently infected with BVDV
abstract: Based on the distribution of antibody titers against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in 10 Michigan dairy herds, it was calculated that screening of 5 young stock for BVDV antibody titer could be used to distinguish herds with persistently infected (PI) animals from herds without such animals. The herds were selected to represent 3 different herd categories: A, herds without use of vaccination and without PI animals (5 herds); B, herds with use of killed vaccine but no PI animals (2 herds); C, herds with use of killed vaccine and presence of PI animals (3 herds). The animals were described as having high antibody titers (> or = 128) or low antibody titers (< or = 64). For animals from 9 to 18 months of age, the probability of obtaining at least 3 animals with high titers among a screening sample of 5 animals was calculated as < 0.001 for all herds in category A, < 0.01 for the 2 herds in category B, and > 0.99 for all herds in category C. Thus, among herds in this study, by categorizing 9-18-month-old animals as having high titers (> or = 128) or low titers (< or = 64), herds with PI cattle could be distinguished from other herds by testing only 5 animals.


pmid: 2837860
title: Response of cattle persistently infected with bovine virus diarrhoea virus to bovine leukosis virus
abstract: Six cattle persistently infected with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and seronegative, and two control, virus negative seropositive cattle were inoculated with lymphocytes infected with bovine leukosis virus (BLV). The two controls produced a normal immune response to BLV, developing antibodies at four and five weeks after inoculation. Two of the six cattle persistently infected with BVDV developed a strong antibody response by six weeks after inoculation with BLV. Four developed a depressed response to BLV, characterised in three by a 'hooking' reaction in the immunodiffusion test which persisted in successive bleedings but was interspersed occasionally by a weak positive reaction. In one of these animals, a series of 'hooking' reactions was followed by a number of negative results. The fourth animal remained serologically negative until 16 weeks after inoculation when a 'hooking' reaction was observed followed by a series of negative results. BLV was isolated from all the cattle persistently infected with BVDV at 42 or 58 weeks after inoculation regardless of whether the serum samples gave negative, 'hooking', weak positive or positive reactions in the immunodiffusion test. BLV was consistently isolated from the nasal secretions of a steer which was BVDV negative but seropositive. The possibility of decreased immune responsiveness to BLV in animals persistently infected with BVDV should be considered when formulating regulations governing the testing of animals for freedom from BLV.


pmid: 3000058
title: Disease in a dairy herd associated with the introduction and spread of bovine virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: In January 1982 an outbreak of diarrhoea among adult dairy cows in a closed herd of approximately 200 milking animals was shown to be caused by the introduction of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV). Affected animals showed a significant reduction in milk yield. One animal died and four were culled. Eight cows aborted and one weak calf was born. Of 121 calves born that year, 26 died, mostly from pneumonia, but five aged from three weeks to five months had enteric lesions of mucosal disease. Subsequent investigations of the whole herd in 1983 and 1984 showed that virus spread among the adults was slow and that BVDV continued to make a major contribution to calf losses. Again the greatest cause of loss was suppurative or fibrinous pneumonia. Overall, BVDV was isolated from 36 animals. Isolation of virus from a wide range of tissues of individual animals confirmed that they were viraemic at death. Viruses from calves dying of pneumonia and from aborted fetuses were non-cytopathic in tissue culture. Isolates showing varying degrees of cytopathogenicity were obtained only from tissues of one calf with a congenital neurological defect and the seven animals with enteric lesions consistent with a diagnosis of mucosal disease. Blood from all 89 BVDV antibody-free animals older than three months was tested for the presence of BVDV. Altogether, 12 calves were identified as persistently viraemic and all were apparently healthy when bled. Only two matured normally, four grew poorly and six died.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


pmid: 18346451
title: Influence of herd structure and type of virus introduction on the spread of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) within a dairy herd
abstract: A herd is a population structured into groups not all equally in contact, which may influence within-herd spread of pathogens. Herd structure varies among cattle herds. However, published models of the spread of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) assume no herd structure or a unique structure chosen as a representative. Our objective was to identify--for different index cases introduced into an initially BVDV--free dairy herd - risky (favourable) herd structures, which increased (decreased) BVDV spread and persistence compared to a reference structure. Classically, dairy herds are divided into calves, young heifers, bred heifers, lactating cows and dry cows. In the reference scenario, groups are all equally in contact. We evaluated the effect of isolating or merging groups. Three index cases were tested: an open persistently-infected (PI) heifer, an open transiently-infected heifer, an immune heifer carrying a PI foetus. Merging all groups and merging calves and lactating cows were risky scenarios. Isolating each group, isolating lactating cows from other groups, and merging calves and young heifers were favourable scenarios. In most structures, the most risky index cases were the following: first, the entry of a PI heifer; second, the birth of a PI calf; last, the entry of a transiently-infected heifer. Recommendations for dairy herds are to raise young animals together before breeding and to isolate lactating cows from others as much as possible. These recommendations will be less efficient if a PI adult enters into the herd.


pmid: 16164009
title: BVD control in Europe: current status and perspectives
abstract: For several decades after the first description of bovine viral diarrhea and its causative agent (BVDV) the economic impact of the infection was underestimated and in addition there were no suitable diagnostics and procedures for a systematic control at hand. Today, there are several estimates on the real economic impact of the infection and during the last 15 years the serological and virological laboratory diagnosis of BVDV infections has improved. Also, successful procedures aimed at eradicating BVDV infections by using a strict test and removal policy for animals persistently infected (PI) with BVDV accompanied by movement restrictions for infected herds have been implemented in the Scandinavian countries. The success of these efforts has encouraged other European countries to follow the same procedures. However, the Scandinavian control strategy might-for a number of reasons-not be acceptable for all European countries. In such cases, the test and removal strategy, with its fundamental elements of biosecurity, removal of PI animals and monitoring of herd status, in combination with systematic vaccination, might be an acceptable compromise. The impact of the BVDV-free status of regions and nations on international trade is not yet clear. In any case, biosecurity measures will be of utmost importance for individual control programs as well as multiple control programs to co-exist in Europe.


pmid: 15062477
title: The immune response to bovine viral diarrhea virus: a constantly changing picture
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is one of the major immuno-suppressive viruses of cattle. The effect on the innate and acquired immune system is unique and results in dramatic immune dysfunction. BVDV infection also has the ability to cause persistent infection (PI) in the developing fetus. This Pl syndrome creates a requirement for high levels of BVDV immunity from vaccines to prevent these infections. BVDV vaccines and their future development continue to be an enigma in the control of BVDV.


pmid: 17526894
title: Serological survey for antibodies against pestiviruses in sheep in Austria
abstract: The prevalence of antibodies to pestiviruses was investigated in 4931 sheep, in 377 flocks, in four federal states of Austria, by means of an indirect elisa that detected antibodies to Border disease virus (BDV) and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). The mean flock prevalence was 62.9 per cent and the mean individual prevalence was 29.4 per cent. Comparative neutralisation studies on the elisa-positive samples with BVDV type 1 (BVDV-1), BVDV type 2 (BVDV-2) and BDV recorded 336 samples with higher titres (more than four times average) to BVDV-1, three samples with higher titres to BVDV-2 and 55 samples with higher titres to BDV. The other samples did not show clear differences in antibody titres against the strains of pestivirus tested because of cross-reactions. The seroprevalence of pestiviruses in sheep was significantly higher on farms with cattle. There were significant regional differences between the prevalences in flocks and individual sheep, the highest prevalences being in the region of Austria where communal alpine pasturing of sheep, goats and cattle is an important part of farming.


pmid: 12916692
title: The acute phase response in calves experimentally infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus and/or Mannheimia haemolytica
abstract: The aim of this investigation was to study differences and similarities in the acute phase response of calves experimentally infected in the respiratory tract with either bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) or Mannheima haemolytica (Mh), or with a combination of both (BVDV/Mh). A non-inoculated control group was also included. The acute phase response was measured by serum or plasma concentrations of the acute phase proteins (APPs) haptoglobin, serum amyloid A (SAA) and fibrinogen, and of cortisol, prostaglandin F2alpha-metabolite and interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) activity. Clinical symptoms were also recorded and were most severe in the BVDV/Mh group. The symptoms were mild to moderate in the BVDV group, while none, or very mild symptoms were observed in the Mh group. In all inoculated groups, a significant acute phase response was observed, with elevated values of haptoglobin, SAA and fibrinogen, while the control group remained unaffected throughout the study. In general, the magnitude of the response was similar, but the duration of elevated concentrations of APPs was significantly longer in the BVDV/Mh group than in the BVDV group, reflecting the duration of the clinical symptoms. However, in the single infection groups, the APP response and the clinical symptoms were not correlated. The IFN-alpha activity increased in all BVDV-inoculated animals, but no response in cortisol and PGF2alpha-metabolite concentrations was observed after infection. Basal levels of serum concentrations of haptoglobin, SAA and fibrinogen were established and may be used for evaluating calf health in herds. The duration of elevated haptoglobin, SAA and fibrinogen values did not differ significantly within groups indicating that their value as indicator of disease is equal.


pmid: 24269107
title: Associations between bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) seropositivity and performance indicators in beef suckler and dairy herds
abstract: Data from 255 Scottish beef suckler herds and 189 Scottish dairy herds surveyed as part of national bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) prevalence studies from October 2006 to May 2008 were examined retrospectively to determine the relationship between serological status and key performance indicators derived from national cattle movement records. On average, calf mortality rates were 1.35 percentage points higher in seropositive beef herds and 3.05 percentage points higher in seropositive dairy herds than in negative control herds. Seropositive beef herds were also more likely to show increases in calf mortality rates and culling rates between successive years. There were no discernible effects of BVDV on the average age at first calving or calving interval for either herd type. Accompanying questionnaire data revealed that only 27% of beef farmers and 25% of dairy farmers with seropositive herds thought their cattle were affected by BVDV, which suggests that the clinical effects of exposure may be inapparent under field conditions or masked by other causes of reproductive failure and culling. Beef farmers were significantly more likely to perceive a problem when their herd experienced acute changes in calf mortality rates, culling rates, and calving intervals between successive years. However, only 35% of these perceived positive herds were actually seropositive for BVDV. These findings emphasize both the importance of routinely screening herds to determine their true infection status and the potential for using national cattle movement records to identify herds that may be experiencing outbreaks from BVDV or other infectious diseases that impact herd performance.


pmid: 12630680
title: Selection of a thiazole urea-resistant variant of bovine viral diarrhoea virus that maps to the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase
abstract: By passing wild type bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in increasing concentrations of DPC-A69280-29, a thiazole urea class compound that inhibits BVDV replication, we were able to select several variants of BVDV that exhibited decreased susceptibility to this compound. When the non-structural genes of these variants were sequenced and compared with wild type, only one change was common to all the variants that also exhibited resistance to DPC-A69280-29 (>10-fold increase in IC50). This change was a T-to-A transversion at position 11198 of the BVDV genome, which would cause a predicted substitution of isoleucine for phenylalanine at amino acid 78 of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp). This substitution would occur in a region of the BVDV RdRp which has been proposed to be important for the formation of the RdRp homodimer that is essential for the activity of the enzyme. However, since DPC-69280-29 inhibits BVDV replication by interfering with the initiation of viral RNA synthesis, we discuss the possibility that this region of the BVDV RdRp also may play a role in the initiation process. Furthermore, since this region is located fairly close to the template RNA, we also propose that the role it plays may involve either template selection, stabilization or processivity.


pmid: 18628597
title: Genoepidemiological evaluation of Bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 species based on secondary structures in the 5' untranslated region
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 (BVDV-2) strains demonstrated in cattle, sheep, and adventitious contaminants of biological products have been evaluated by the palindromic nucleotide substitutions (PNS) method at the three variable loci (V1, V2 and V3) in the 5' untranslated region (UTR), to determine their taxonomical status. Variation in conserved genomic sequences was used as parameter for epidemiological evaluation of the species in relation with geographical distribution, animal host and virulence. Four genotypes, BVDV-2a, BVDV-2b, BVDV-2c, and BVDV-2d have been identified within the species. Taxonomical segregation corresponded to geographical distribution of genotype variants. Genotype 2a was present worldwide, and was the only circulating also in sheep, in addition to cattle. Genotypes 2b, 2c and 2d were restricted to South America. Contamination of biological products was related to genotypes 2a and 2d. Genetic variation could be related with chronological diffusion of the BVDV-2 species variants in different geographic areas. Chronologically, the species emerged in North America in 1978, spreading in UK and Japan, continental Europe, South America and New Zealand. Correlation between clinical features related with isolation of BVDV-2 strains and genetic variation indicated that subgenotype 1, variant 4 of genotype 2a was related with hemorrhagic syndrome. These observations suggest that evaluation of genomic secondary structure, by identifying markers for expression of virus biological activities and species evolutionary history, may be applied as useful tool for epidemiological evaluation of the BVDV-2 species, and possibly for other species of the genus Pestivirus.


pmid: 15710188
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in cell lines used for somatic cell cloning
abstract: Culture of cell lines from fetuses or postnatal animals is an essential part of somatic cell cloning. Fetal bovine serum (FBS) is commonly used in media for propagation of these cells. Unfortunately, bovine fetuses and postnatal animals as well as FBS are all possible sources of non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) which is widely distributed among cattle. This study was prompted when screening of samples sent to veterinary diagnostic labs revealed that 15 of 39 fetal fibroblast cell lines used in cloning research were positive for BVDV as determined by various assays including reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Goals of the research were to use both virus isolation and reverse transcription-nested polymerase chain reaction (RT-nPCR) to confirm which of the cell lines were actually infected with BVDV and to assay samples of media, FBS and the earliest available passages of each cell line in an attempt to determine the source of the viral infections. Sequence analysis of amplified cDNA from all isolates was performed to provide a definitive link between possible sources of virus and infected cell lines. Only 5 of the 39 cell lines were actually infected with BVDV. Three of these five lines were not infected at the earliest cryopreserved passage, leading to the conclusion that they likely became infected after culture in media containing contaminated FBS. In fact, sequence comparison of the amplified cDNA from one lot of FBS confirmed that it was the source of infection for one of these cell lines. Since BVDV was isolated from the remaining two cell lines at the earliest available passage, the fetuses from which they were established could not be ruled out as the source of the virus.


pmid: 7490710
title: Detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus antigen and RNA in oviduct and granulosa cells of persistently infected cattle
abstract: Large-scale in vitro bovine embryo production systems commonly use genital tracts obtained from an abattoir as a source of both cumulus-oocyte complexes and co-culture feeder cells. Tissues derived from this source may be contaminated with non-cytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) since, in several countries surveyed, approximately 1% of animals tested are persistently infected with this pathogen. Therefore, the use of such material in in vitro fertilization systems presents a potential risk for the transmission of BVDV to bovine embryos and via embryo transfer. This potential was investigated by obtaining oviduct epithelial cells and granulosa cells, which are commonly used as feeder cells, from cattle persistently infected with BVDV and examining them for the presence of BVD viral antigen (p80 non-structural protein and gp53 envelope glycoprotein) by indirect immunofluorescent histochemistry, and also viral RNA (encoding the p80 region) by in situ hybridization. In addition, titres of virus present in oviduct, ovary and blood were assayed by immunodetection on calf testis cell cultures. Luminal epithelial cells from the oviduct and primary cultures of granulosa cells and oviduct epithelial cells from such cattle were shown to contain both viral antigen and RNA. The susceptibility of both cell types to BVDV infection was further established by inoculating primary cell cultures of cells derived from cattle not infected with BVDV with a cloned isolate of non-cytopathogenic BVDV (Pe515). RNA encoding BVDV and the antigen were detected 12 h after inoculation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


pmid: 7839747
title: Virological and pathological findings in sheep fetuses following experimental infection of pregnant ewes with cytopathogenic-bovine-virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: Eighteen pregnant Merino ewes were inoculated intravenously between days 65 and 68 of gestation with the unpurified cytopathogenic (cp) bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) strain Indiana (experiment I). In experiment II, three ewes were inoculated with the same virus after two successive plaque isolations in order to compare its pathogenicity for the fetus with special regard to lesions in the fetal brain. In experiment I, fetal blood and tissue samples, allantoic fluids and placentomes were collected sequentially between 10 and 80 days post-inoculation (p.i.). BVDV was recovered from 6 of 19 fetuses examined during the first 3 weeks after inoculation. From fetuses sampled between 30 and 50 days p.i. virus was isolated from three cases only, and from 60 days p.i. onwards virus was no longer recovered. BVDV was longer detected in the allantoic fluid than in fetal tissues and continued to be present until 80 days post-inoculation. From tissue samples of two fetuses of experiment I, only non-cytopathogenic BVDV was isolated, whilst samples from seven fetuses contained the cp BVDV biotype as revealed by an immunoplaque assay. The cp biotype was also isolated from placentomes. In experiment II, virus was not isolated from any of the tissue samples of two living fetuses collected at 67 days post-inoculation. In both experiments, cp BVDV was recovered from allantoic fluid samples. In contrast to the developing fetal brain, other tissues or organs seemed to be less vulnerable to the cp BVDV strain Indiana. The partial purification of this virus strain did not affect its pathogenicity for the brains of the developing fetuses.


pmid: 2175527
title: Detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus in serum from cattle by dot blot hybridization assay
abstract: A dot blot hybridization assay was developed for use as a rapid screening test to detect bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in serum from infected cattle. A 1.1. kilobase cDNA, prepared from the BVDV genome, was molecularly cloned and used in this study. Insert cDNA was removed from the pUC9 plasmid vector by Pst-I restriction endonuclease digestion and purified from plasmid DNA by agarose electrophoresis and electroelution. The hybridization probe was prepared by nick translation in the presence of gamma dCT32P and labelled to a specific activity of 2 x 10(8) cpm/micrograms of DNA. Specificity was determined by dot blot hybridization of infected cell culture supernate from nine different BVDV strains. The probe hybridized equally with all strains of BVDV tested, which included four cytopathic and five noncytopathic strains of BVDV. Serum was collected from veal calves with respiratory tract disease, unthriftiness, anorexia, and/or poor conditions. Serum samples were treated with nonidet P40 detergent and denatured with formaldehyde and heat prior to application on 1.2 micron nylon membrane filters using a vacuum dot blot apparatus. Hybridization was done under relatively stringent conditions (50% formamide at 42 degrees C). A total of 141 serum samples from different calves were tested and of these samples, 55 (39%) were positive by dot blot hybridization for BVDV RNA. Eight calves (33%) out of 24, tested 3 to 4 weeks later, remained positive for BVDV RNA.


pmid: 33666123
title: Effect of calf age on bovine viral diarrhea virus tests
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) causes significant economic loss in cattle. Detection of persistently infected (PI) animals is an important control measure, but persistence of maternal antibodies may result in false-negative test results. We assessed the sensitivity and specificity of 2 antigen ELISAs (Idexx BVDV Ag/Serum Plus and BVDV PI X2) and a reverse-transcription real-time PCR (RT-rtPCR; Idexx RealPCR BVDV) assay for detecting PI calves. Ear notch samples were collected from 1,030 calves ~3, 10, 24, and 38 d old (days 3, 10, 24, and 38). All day 38 samples were tested using 2 antigen ELISAs and RT-rtPCR, and any calf that tested positive by any of these tests was blood sampled at ~100 d old (day 100) for antigen and antibody testing by ELISA; samples collected on days 3, 10, and 24 were tested using the antigen ELISAs and PCR. Calves were defined as PI if they were test-positive on day 38 by either ELISA or PCR and were antigen-positive on day 100. Twenty-six calves were PCR BVDV test-positive and one was BVDV PI X2 ELISA-positive at day 38. Five calves were defined as PI, and all tested positive by ELISAs and RT-PCR assay on days 3, 10, and 24. The sensitivity and specificity were 100% for both antigen ELISAs and 96.7% and 100%, respectively, by RT-rtPCR. Test results were not affected by calf age, suggesting that testing for PI calves can be undertaken at any age.


pmid: 21907372
title: Suppression of bovine viral diarrhea virus replication by single and dual short hairpin RNA-mediated RNA interference
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is one of the most important pathogens to the cattle industry, causing a significant economic loss throughout the world. Despite the wide use of various control measures for BVDV, the disease remains prevalent. In this study, we achieved an efficient inhibition of NADL strain replication by plasmid-mediated shRNA targeting conserved regions of the viral genome. To further enhance the inhibiting efficiency, a dual shRNA expression plasmid, which could simultaneously express two different shRNA, was established and showed stronger inhibitory effects on virus replication. Moreover, the antiviral activity induced by the dual shRNA expression system was also evident on other BVDV-1 subgenotypes (BVDV-1a, BVDV-1b and BVDV-1c). Therefore, the dual shRNA system provides a more powerful strategy for inhibiting BVDV replication in a cross-resistance manner.


pmid: 20046630
title: Prevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in persistently infected cattle and BVDV subtypes in affected cattle in beef herds in south central United States
abstract: The prevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in persistently infected (PI) cattle in beef breeding herds was determined using 30 herds with 4530 calves. The samples were collected by ear notches and tested for BVDV antigens using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and antigen capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ACE). Animals with initial positives on both IHC and ACE were sampled again using both tests and serums were collected for viral propagation and sequencing of a viral genomic region, 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) for viral subtyping. Samples were also collected from the dams of PI calves. There were 25 PI calves from 4530 samples (0.55%) and these PI calves were from 5 of the 30 herds (16.7%). Two herds had multiple PI calves and 3 herds had only 1 PI calf. Only 1 of the 25 dams with a PI calf was also PI (4.0%). The subtype of all the PI isolates was BVDV1b. Histories of the ranches indicated 23 out of 30 had herd additions of untested breeding females. Twenty-four of the 30 herds had adult cowherd vaccinations against BVDV, primarily using killed BVDV vaccines at pregnancy examination.


pmid: 11939332
title: Detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus by TaqMan reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction
abstract: Detection and elimination of calves and cows persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is important for the control of this pathogen. Historically, BVDV detection involved cell culture isolation followed by virus detection through immunofluorescence or immunoperoxidase monolayer assay (IPMA) methods. More recently, immunohistochemistry (IHC) has been added as a routine test for BVDV detection. The detection of BVDV by gel-based reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) is more sensitive and rapid than by cell culture isolation, but test results can be compromised by sample contamination during nucleic acid amplification. This study was designed to develop a closed-tube format of BVDV nucleic acid amplification and detection, TaqMan RT-PCR. The results of this new technique were compared with those obtained with virus isolation, IPMA, and IHC. With TaqMan RT-PCR, BVDV was detected in many samples negative by IPMA, IHC, and virus isolation with the exception of 1 sample that was positive by IHC. TaqMan RT-PCR in a closed-tube format offers a rapid, economical, high volume, and sensitive method for BVDV detection without the concerns of amplified cDNA product contamination associated with open-tube gel-based PCR tests.


pmid: 10844229
title: The effects of bovine viral diarrhoea virus on cattle reproduction in relation to disease control
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is a major reproductive pathogen in cattle. Infection of the bull can lead to a fall in semen quality and the isolation of infectious virus in the ejaculate, while infection in the cow leads to poor conception rates, abortions and congenital defects. BVDV also reduces the animal's resistance to other respiratory and enteric pathogens. The prevalence of BVDV is primarily due to the efficiency with which the virus crosses the placenta of susceptible females. Calves that survive infection during the first trimester of pregnancy are born with a persistent and lifelong infection. These persistently infected (PI) animals represent between 1.0% and 2.0% of the cattle population and continuously shed infectious virus. The availability of reliable diagnostic ELISA and PCR techniques, which can test milk or serum samples for virus or antibodies, has simplified BVDV surveillance and improved the prospects for control. Although PI animals are the principal vectors within and between herds, they can be readily identified and removed. By contrast, cows carrying a PI foetus are particularly problematic. These animals have been compared to 'Trojan Horses' because they are virus-negative and antibody-positive but they deliver PI calves. In general, acutely infected cattle are much less efficient vectors but infections at the onset of puberty have resulted in a localised and persistent infection within the testes. Under these circumstances, virus shedding into the semen may remain undetected. Transmission of BVDV can be controlled through vaccination or eradication. BVDV vaccine technology has been developing over the past 30 years, but currently available vaccines are still of the conventional inactivated or attenuated sort. In general, vaccination has not been applied with sufficient rigor to make a significant impact on the level of circulating virus, unlike the national and regional eradication programmes established in areas such as Scandinavia, Austria, the Netherlands and Scotland. Eradication confers the added advantage of improved herd health; however, it also creates a susceptible cattle population that needs to be protected by stringent biosecurity. In this article, we discuss how BVDV influences reproductive function, the potential for viral transmission during breeding and the measures that must be taken to avoid the spread of infection to susceptible cattle populations via semen, embryos, culture fluids and infected cows.


pmid: 14609269
title: Experimental infection of calves with bovine viral diarrhoea virus type-2 (BVDV-2) isolated from a contaminated vaccine
abstract: A non-cytopathic strain of BVDV-2 was isolated from a batch of live infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR) vaccine, and inoculated intranasally into four 3-month-old calves. Severe signs of disease developed by days 4 and 6 in three of the calves, free of BVDV and antibodies to BVDV, that had been exposed to the virus. These calves survived the acute phase of the infection and progressively recovered. BVDV was consistently isolated, or the respective viral RNA was detected, in the buffy coats from blood samples collected starting from days 2 or 4 up to days 11 or 14 after the experimental infection. Viral RNA was also detected in sera from these infected calves until the presence in the serum of virus neutralizing antibodies was demonstrated. By contrast, the only calf having pre-existing neutralizing antibodies to BVDV at the start of the study was protected from the disease. No virus was detected at any time after experimental inoculation of this calf. Genomic characterization of the BVDV-2 isolated in cell cultures, or detected in sera from the experimentally infected animals, revealed 100%, homology in the nucleotide sequence with the BVDV-2 detected as a contaminant of the live IBR virus vaccine. These findings provided evidence of the infective nature of the contaminant BVDV-2 and of its potential to generate disease outbreaks when inoculated into susceptible animals.


pmid: 18155307
title: The effect of becoming BVDV-free on fertility and udder health in Dutch dairy herds
abstract: The aim of the study was to investigate the effect of BVDV-free certification of dairy herds on fertility and udder health. Cases were defined as dairy herds that had at least one BVDV-antigen positive animal, subsequently gained the BVDV-free status by participating in the BVDV-control programme of the Animal Health Service (AHS) and maintained this status for at least 2 years. Controls had an unknown status for BVDV and two controls were matched to one case by region and herd size. Data concerning fertility and milk production of all herds were provided by The Dutch Royal Cattle Syndicate (NRS). After validation, data of 79,607 cows of 392 case herds and 124,831 cows of 730 control herds were analysed on ten fertility and three udder health parameters. For the analyses all observations were aggregated at herd level. To account for the matching, differences for fertility parameters were calculated between each of the two pairs of case-control within a matching code. The analyses were performed with these differences as dependent variables. Mixed models and GEE models were used for the statistical analyses of fertility and udder health. Case herds had a significantly lower abortion rate in the BVDV-free period than controls herds (10.3% versus 11.6%, P<0.01) while there was no significant difference for the other fertility parameters. There was no effect on mastitis prevalence or bulk-milk SCC but the mastitis incidence significantly decreased for case herds in the BVDV-free period (cases 0.6 % lower than controls, P<0.05). In our study the effect of getting the BVDV-free status may have been underestimated for several reasons like an unknown status for control herds, not knowing when an acute infection occurred in case herds and not knowing the management for both cases and controls. Interestingly, both significant variables, being abortions and mastitis incidence, are parameters that are more difficult to influence by the farmer than the other parameters (e.g. calving interval).


pmid: 15708997
title: Establishment of a subgenomic replicon for bovine viral diarrhea virus in Huh-7 cells and modulation of interferon-regulated factor 3-mediated antiviral response
abstract: We describe the development of a selectable, bi-cistronic subgenomic replicon for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in Huh-7 cells, similar to that established for hepatitis C virus (HCV). The selection marker and reporter (Luc-Ubi-Neo) in the BVDV replicon was fused with the amino-terminal protease N(pro), and expression of the nonstructural proteins (NS3 to NS5B) was driven by an encephalomyocarditis virus internal ribosome entry site. This BVDV replicon allows us to compare RNA replication of these two related viruses in a similar cellular background and to identify antiviral molecules specific for HCV RNA replication. The BVDV replicon showed similar sensitivity as the HCV replicon to interferons (alpha, beta, and gamma) and 2'-beta-C-methyl ribonucleoside inhibitors. Known nonnucleoside inhibitor molecules specific for either HCV or BVDV can be easily distinguished by using the parallel replicon systems. The HCV replicon has been shown to block, via the NS3/4A serine protease, Sendai virus-induced activation of interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF-3), a key antiviral signaling molecule. Similar suppression of IRF-3-mediated responses was also observed with the Huh-7-BVDV replicon but was independent of NS3/4A protease activity. Instead, the amino-terminal cysteine protease N(pro) of BVDV appears to be, at least partly, responsible for suppressing IRF-3 activation induced by Sendai virus infection. This result suggests that different viruses, including those closely related, may have developed unique mechanisms for evading host antiviral responses. The parallel BVDV and HCV replicon systems provide robust counterscreens to distinguish viral specificity of small-molecule inhibitors of viral replication and to study the interactions of the viral replication machinery with the host cell innate immune system.


pmid: 15451615
title: Cytopathic and non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhoea virus biotypes affect fluid phase uptake and mannose receptor-mediated endocytosis in bovine monocytes
abstract: We have used non-cytopathic (ncp) and cytopathic (cp) bovine viral diarrhoea viruses (BVDV) to determine how the two biotypes affect mannose receptor (MR)-mediated endocytosis and fluid phase uptake in bovine monocytes. We have demonstrated that endocytosis in uninfected monocytes after 1 h of culture was mediated by the MR and fluid phase uptake, and after 24 h of culture it was mediated via fluid phase uptake only. Both cp and ncp BVDV affected the mechanisms of antigen uptake in monocytes. Endocytosis in BVDV infected monocytes, unlike in uninfected cells, was MR-independent and mediated by fluid phase uptake after 1 h of infection. The 24-h-BVDV infection changed the antigen uptake mechanisms to become MR- and fluid phase uptake-dependent. We conclude that antigen uptake, an important antigen presenting cell (APC) function, is affected in the early stage of BVDV infection during the first 24 h, with both BVDV biotypes, cp and ncp, having similar effects on monocyte antigen uptake in cattle. By influencing the early antigen uptake function of APC, BVDV might disrupt the function of monocytes as professional APC and contribute to the specific immunotolerance to BVDV.


pmid: 26779126
title: Persistent Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Infection in Domestic and Wild Small Ruminants and Camelids Including the Mountain Goat (Oreamnos americanus)
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a pestivirus best known for causing a variety of disease syndromes in cattle, including gastrointestinal disease, reproductive insufficiency, immunosuppression, mucosal disease, and hemorrhagic syndrome. The virus can be spread by transiently infected individuals and by persistently infected animals that may be asymptomatic while shedding large amounts of virus throughout their lifetime. BVDV has been reported in over 40 domestic and free-ranging species, and persistent infection has been described in eight of those species: white-tailed deer, mule deer, eland, mousedeer, mountain goats, alpacas, sheep, and domestic swine. This paper reviews the various aspects of BVDV transmission, disease syndromes, diagnosis, control, and prevention, as well as examines BVDV infection in domestic and wild small ruminants and camelids including mountain goats (Oreamnos americanus).


pmid: 19167739
title: Phylogeny, classification and evolutionary insights into pestiviruses
abstract: The genus Pestivirus comprises four established species: Bovine viral diarrhoea viruses 1 (BVDV-1) and 2 (BVDV-2), Border disease virus (BDV), and Classical swine fever virus (CSFV); and a tentative species, Pestivirus of giraffe. Additional pestiviruses have been identified and suggested for recognition as novel subgroups/species. To achieve a reliable phylogeny as the basis for classification of pestiviruses, a molecular dataset of 56 pestiviruses and 2089 characters, comprising the 5'UTR, complete N(pro) and E2 gene regions was analysed by Maximum likelihood and Bayesian approach. An identical, robust tree topology was inferred, where seven well-supported monophyletic clades and two highly divergent lineages were identified. Dating most recent common ancestor was estimated for major pestivirus lineages and their evolutionary histories were revealed. Accordingly, a new proposal is presented for the classification of pestiviruses into nine species: BVDV-1, BVDV-2, BVDV-3 (atypical bovine pestiviruses), Pestivirus of giraffe, CSFV, BDV, Tunisian sheep virus (TSV; previously termed "Tunisian isolates"), Antelope and Bungowannah.


pmid: 28686540
title: Replicon Particle Expressing the E2 Glycoprotein of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Immunization and Evaluation of Antibody Response
abstract: The objective of this study was to develop a new antigen delivery system using an alphavirus replicon particle (RP) to induce humoral antibody responses against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) recombinant antigen produced from envelope glycoprotein E2. An alphavirus RP expressing the E2 glycoprotein of BVDV was used for immunization of pigs. A fluorescent microsphere immunoassay (FMIA) has been applied to detect BVDV E2 antigen-specific antibody isotype in pig immunized with alphavirus RP. Full-length BVDV E2 (aa 1-375) was cleaved into several pieces, eight E2 DNA fragments, including full-length DNA, were cloned into expression vector pHUE, and the recombinant proteins expressed in BL-21 (DE3) Escherichia coli. After successful conjugation of purified proteins with microsphere beads, a multiplex FMIA platform was constructed, and BVDV E2 alphavirus-based RP-immunized animal serum samples were tested in the presence of bead-bound antigen targets. The results were represented as mean fluorescence intensity (MFI); the MFI values were converted to sample value/positive value (S/P) ratios. BVDV E2 (aa 1-183) showed the highest MFI values of eight recombinant E2 fragments when the specific activity of each fragment was tested. In immunized animals, data for BVDV E2-specific IgA, IgG, and IgM in serum and only IgG and IgA in oral fluids were recorded. The MFI values for the positive serum sample showed a 100-fold increase compared with the negative serum sample. Antibody isotype to BVDV E2 antigens showed that IgG > IgM > IgA in serum, whereas IgG > IgA > IgM in oral fluids. The data presented in this study suggested that boosting with the same doses of alphavirus RP in 3-week intervals may potentially enhance antibody response. The experimental results demonstrate that alphavirus RP-expressing BVDV E2 antigen induces antibody response in pig.


pmid: 26279338
title: Development of an APC-targeted multivalent E2-based vaccine against Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus types 1 and 2
abstract: The aim of this study was to develop and test a multivalent subunit vaccine against Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) based on the E2 virus glycoprotein belonging to genotypes 1a, 1b and 2a, immunopotentiated by targeting these antigens to antigen-presenting cells. The E2 antigens were expressed in insect cells by a baculovirus vector as fusion proteins with a single chain antibody, named APCH I, which recognizes the β-chain of the MHC Class II antigen. The three chimeric proteins were evaluated for their immunogenicity in a guinea pig model as well as in colostrum-deprived calves. Once the immune response in experimentally vaccinated calves was evaluated, immunized animals were challenged with type 1b or type 2b BVDV in order to study the protection conferred by the experimental vaccine. The recombinant APCH I-tE21a-1b-2a vaccine was immunogenic both in guinea pigs and calves, inducing neutralizing antibodies. After BVDV type 1b and type 2 challenge of vaccinated calves in a proof of concept, the type 1b virus could not be isolated in any animal; meanwhile it was detected in all challenged non-vaccinated control animals. However, the type 2 BVDV was isolated to a lesser extent compared to unvaccinated animals challenged with type 2 BVDV. Clinical signs associated to BVDV, hyperthermia and leukopenia were reduced with respect to controls in all vaccinated calves. Given these results, this multivalent vaccine holds promise for a safe and effective tool to control BVDV in herds.


pmid: 26208851
title: What variables are important in predicting bovine viral diarrhea virus? A random forest approach
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) causes one of the most economically important diseases in cattle, and the virus is found worldwide. A better understanding of the disease associated factors is a crucial step towards the definition of strategies for control and eradication. In this study we trained a random forest (RF) prediction model and performed variable importance analysis to identify factors associated with BVDV occurrence. In addition, we assessed the influence of features selection on RF performance and evaluated its predictive power relative to other popular classifiers and to logistic regression. We found that RF classification model resulted in an average error rate of 32.03% for the negative class (negative for BVDV) and 36.78% for the positive class (positive for BVDV).The RF model presented area under the ROC curve equal to 0.702. Variable importance analysis revealed that important predictors of BVDV occurrence were: a) who inseminates the animals, b) number of neighboring farms that have cattle and c) rectal palpation performed routinely. Our results suggest that the use of machine learning algorithms, especially RF, is a promising methodology for the analysis of cross-sectional studies, presenting a satisfactory predictive power and the ability to identify predictors that represent potential risk factors for BVDV investigation. We examined classical predictors and found some new and hard to control practices that may lead to the spread of this disease within and among farms, mainly regarding poor or neglected reproduction management, which should be considered for disease control and eradication.


pmid: 11042413
title: A new inactivated BVDV genotype I and II vaccine. An immunisation and challenge study with BVDV genotype I
abstract: An inactivated vaccine containing BVDV I and II strains (PT810; BVDV I, and 890; BVDV II) and using different adjuvants and antigen dosages was tested in a cattle challenge model. Groups of six healthy, seronegative cattle were vaccinated twice with a low dose (10(6.6) TCID(50) PT810 and 10(7.2) TCID(50) 890) vaccine with the adjuvant Bay R1005 or a high dose (10(7.8) TCID(50) PT810 and 10(8. 2) TCID(50) 890) vaccine with two different adjuvants (Bay R1005 or Polygen). Thirty-eight days after the second vaccination, immunised animals (n=18) and non-vaccinated control animals (n=3) were challenged intranasally with 10(6) TCID(50) BVDV strain PT810. For a period of 16 days, virus was isolated from blood leukocytes and nasal swabs, and neutralising antibody titres were determined.The induction of antibodies following immunisation was strongly dependent on the antigen dosage in the vaccine. The high dose formulation induced high serum neutralising antibody titres against both genotypes of up to 32000 after the second immunisation. Animals with neutralising antibody titres >512 (n=14) did not show any marked leukopenia after challenge and only very little or no virus could be isolated from blood leukocytes and/or nasal swabs when compared to control cattle. Furthermore, some of these animals did not show any boost of neutralising or even NS3-specific antibodies, which renders viral replication unlikely and thus would prevent infection of the fetus. Both adjuvants (Bay R1005 or Polygen) were similarly efficient and induced nearly identical antibody responses. In contrast, four of the six low dosage vaccinates had a marked leukopenia and viraemia as well as detectable nasal virus shedding for several days. We conclude that the selected strains and the system of vaccine preparation with high BVDV antigen dosages and highly efficient new adjuvants provide an effective means of protection against BVDV I infections. Investigations to demonstrate the protection against BVDV II infections, the duration of immunity and the ability of fetal protection by using the high dose vaccine in a fetal challenge model will follow.


pmid: 9684968
title: Immunohistochemical evidence for the localization of bovine viral diarrhea virus, a single-stranded RNA virus, in ovarian oocytes in the cow
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a single-stranded RNA virus responsible for enteric disease and reproductive failure in cattle. The virus can pass vertically from cow to fetus, causing abortion, birth of malformed calves, and calves born with persistent and life-long infections. In this study, we investigated the tropism of BVDV in ovarian tissue from persistently infected animals. Three heifers persistently infected with BVDV were euthanatized and their ovaries were recovered. A specimen of each ovary was taken (n = 6) for virus isolation, and the remaining ovarian tissue was stored at -70 C. Cryosections (6 microm) cut from each ovary were analyzed for the presence of BVDV antigens by indirect immunofluorescence. The immunofluorescent analysis employed two monoclonal antibodies, WB103 and WB162, previously raised against the nonstructural protein NS3 and the envelop glycoprotein E2, respectively. High titers (6.97 +/- 0.17 log10 tissue culture infective dose50/ml) of BVDV were recovered from 6/6 ovarian samples; NS3 and E2 were widely distributed within the ovarian stroma, the cumulus cell population, and the oocytes maturing in primordial, primary, and secondary follicles. Overall, 362/1,939 (18.7%) of the oocytes contained BVDV antigens, and there was no significant (P > 0.05) difference in the proportion of BVDV-infected oocytes recorded within the primordial (227/1,247, 18.2%), primary (122/630, 19.4%), and secondary (13/62, 21.0%) follicle populations. Although the developmental potential of the infected oocytes could not be established in the present study, we conclude that bovine oocyte and the cumulus cells are susceptible to BVDV infection.


pmid: 7676642
title: Delayed onset postvaccinal mucosal disease as a result of genetic recombination between genotype 1 and genotype 2 BVDV
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) are segregated into two genotypes, BVDV 1 and BVDV 2. Viruses within both genotypes may exist as one of two biotypes, cytopathic or noncytopathic. A highly fatal form of BVDV termed mucosal disease (MD) occurs when an animal persistently infected with noncytopathic BVDV becomes superinfected with cytopathic BVDV. In this study, we characterized a noncytopathic (BVDV2-125nc)/cytopathic (BVDV2-125c) viral pair isolated from an animal that died of MD 3 months after vaccination with modified-live BVDV1-NADL. In comparison to BVDV2-125nc, BVDV2-125c contained a 366-nucleotide insertion. The insertion was in the correct reading frame for the large open reading frame of the BVDV genome and occurred in the portion of the genome that codes for the p125 viral polypeptide. There was a 99% identity between the inserted sequences found in BVDV2-125c and sequences from the vaccine virus BVDV1-NADL. These data suggest that MD was induced after a recombination between noncytopathic BVD2-125nc and cytopathic vaccine virus BVDV1-NADL created the cytopathic virus BVDV2-125c.


pmid: 29351201
title: In Vivo Characterisation of Five Strains of Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus 1 (Subgenotype 1c)
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus 1 (BVDV-1) is strongly associated with several important diseases of cattle, such as bovine respiratory disease, diarrhoea and haemoragic lesions. To date many subgenotypes have been reported for BVDV-1, currently ranging from subgenotype 1a to subgenotype 1u. While BVDV-1 has a world-wide distribution, the subgenotypes have a more restricted geographical distribution. As an example, BVDV-1 subgenotypes 1a and 1b are frequently detected in North America and Europe, while the subgenotype 1c is rarely detected. In contrast, BVDV-1 subgenotype 1c is by far the most commonly reported in Australia. Despite this, uneven distribution of the biological importance of the subgenotypes remains unclear. The aim of this study was to characterise the in vivo properties of five strains of BVDV-1 subgenotype 1c in cattle infection studies. No overt respiratory signs were reported in any of the infected cattle regardless of strain. Consistent with other subgenotypes, transient pyrexia and leukopenia were commonly identified, while thrombocytopenia was not. The quantity of virus detected in the nasal secretions of transiently infected animals suggested the likelihood of horizontal transmission was very low. Further studies are required to fully understand the variability and importance of the BVDV-1 subgenotype 1c.


pmid: 28504301
title: First report on serological evidence of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in farmed and free ranging mithuns (Bos frontalis)
abstract: Despite reports of BVDV infection in several domestic and wild ruminants, no information exists for mithun (Bos frontalis) species. Hence, this study was undertaken to determine prevalence of BVDV infection in mithuns, which contribute significantly to local economy in the North Eastern region of India. Blood and serum samples were collected between 2013 and 2016 from mithuns (n = 466) belonging to the states of Nagaland, Mizoram, and Arunachal Pradesh. Serum samples were tested for BVDV antibodies by a commercial ELISA and leukocytes were tested for BVDV by real-time RT-PCR. The overall true seroprevalence rate was 13.1% (95% confidence interval, CI: 6.9-17.8%) with higher prevalence in mithuns reared under semi-intensive system (27.5%) than in free-ranging mithuns (7.6%). Among the three states, seroprevalence (16.2%) was highest in Nagaland, while prevalence rates varied markedly among geographical locations. Age-wise data showed highest seroprevalence rate in >6-year-old animals (20.6%) than 2-6 years old (16.9%), 6 months-2 years old (8.5%), and <6-month-old animals (11.3%). The seroprevalence was higher in males (20.9%) than in females (12.1%). Among the four mithun strains, higher prevalence was evident in Manipur (30.3%) than Arunachal (21.3%), Nagaland (11.7%), and Mizoram strain (10.2%). However, no BVDV genomic RNA could be detected. The results provide first serological evidence of BVDV infection in mithun species and extend the knowledge on BVDV host range. The baseline data will help further investigations on epidemiology of BVD in mithun and its impact on mithun production.


pmid: 16216377
title: Genetic recombination at different points in the Npro-coding region of bovine viral diarrhea viruses and the potentials to change their antigenicities and pathogenicities
abstract: Cytopathogenic (cp) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strain KS86-1 cp was isolated from a cow persistently infected with non-cytopathogenic (ncp) BVDV strain KS86-ncp after development of mucosal disease by superinfection with cp BVDV strain Nose. cp BVDV strains 799cp and 839cp were also isolated from independent cattle that developed mucosal disease by superinfection with cp BVDV KS86-1cp. In the present study, genetic analysis revealed that the genes of cp BVDV strains 799cp and 839cp were chimeras between the genes of the persisting ncp BVDVs and that of superinfecting KS86-1cp. The genetic recombination that generates 799cp occurred between the identical points in the N(pro) gene region, whereas genetic recombination that generates 839cp occurred between different points in the N(pro) gene region. Both 799cp and 839cp were inherited Jiv gene of KS86-1cp strain and envelope protein genes of the persisting viruses. In addition, neutralization test disclosed that antigenicities of 799cp, 839cp, and KS86-1cp were also similar to each persisting virus. These findings indicate that exogenous cp BVDV containing insertion of Jiv gene in the 5 terminal region can induce genetic recombination with the original ncp BVDV at different points in the N(pro) gene region, and those viruses have high potential to change those antigenicities and pathogenicities by RNA recombination.


pmid: 19819088
title: Clinical appearance and pathology of cattle persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus of different genetic subgroups
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) is an economically important cattle disease with a world-wide distribution that is caused by BVD virus, a pestivirus of the flaviviridae family. BVD viruses are genetically highly variable. They are classified into two genetic species (BVDV-1 and -2) that are further divided into numerous subgroups, particularly for BVDV-1. The complexity of these viruses is also reflected in their interaction with the host animals. Infections are either transient or persistent and can cause a wide spectrum of clinical signs, from no or very mild disease to severe forms, reminiscent of viral haemorrhagic fevers. In this work, we have analysed the clinical signs and the pathology of BVD viral infections in a cattle population where different subgroups of BVDV-1 genotype viruses are endemic. In addition, we have examined potential virulence properties of BVDV-1 subgroups during persistent infection by comparing the viral subgroups present in clinical cases with those detected in persistently infected (PI) animals sampled for epidemiological criteria, irrespective of their health condition. Furthermore, the clinical and postmortem findings were compared with respect to genetic characteristics of the viruses isolated from these animals. Our results indicate that the BVDV positive animals fall roughly into two categories, depending on the primary organ affected and the age, with lung-centred pathology occurring mainly in young animals and mucosal pathology predominantly in older animals. Furthermore, we found a markedly higher proportion of representatives of the BVDV-1e subgroup in stillborn calves and aborted foetuses originating from epidemically unrelated cattle herds, suggesting that BVDV-1e may play a special role in prenatal and perinatal losses.


pmid: 14747544
title: CD46 is a cellular receptor for bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Various monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) that recognize cell surface proteins on bovine cells were previously shown to efficiently block infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) (C. Schelp, I. Greiser-Wilke, G. Wolf, M. Beer, V. Moennig, and B. Liess, Arch. Virol. 140:1997-2009, 1995). With one of these MAbs, a 50- to 58-kDa protein was purified from calf thymus by immunoaffinity chromatography. Microchemical analysis of two internal peptides revealed significant sequence homology to porcine and human CD46. The cDNA of bovine CD46 (CD46(bov)) was cloned and further characterized. Heterologously expressed CD46(bov) was detected by the MAb used for purification. A putative function of CD46(bov) as a BVDV receptor was studied with respect to virus binding and susceptibility of nonpermissive cells. While the expression of CD46(bov) correlated well with the binding of [(3)H]uridine-labeled BVDV, the susceptibility of cells nonpermissive for BVDV was not observed. However, the expression of CD46(bov) resulted in a significant increase in the susceptibility of porcine cells to BVDV. These results provide strong evidence that CD46(bov) serves as a cellular receptor for BVDV.


pmid: 8394609
title: A long term epidemiological study of bovine viral diarrhoea infections in a large herd of dairy cattle
abstract: Epidemiological aspects of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infections were studied longitudinally in a large dairy herd for three years. At the start of the study, practically all the cows more than four years old had BVDV antibody titres, whereas the younger stock were almost all seronegative. The spread of the virus was monitored in a part of the population that contained only transiently viraemic cattle and in another part that contained persistently viraemic calves. Among the lactating cows the virus circulated for two-and-a-half years, although they had no direct contact with persistently viraemic cattle during this period. The highest transmission rate occurred when a large number of susceptible heifers was added to the population of cows that contained transiently viraemic cattle. The circulation of BVDV among the lactating cows ceased while 27 seronegative cows were still present. Both findings are in accordance with predictions from simple epidemic models. The susceptibility of the cows that remained seronegative was confirmed experimentally. In contrast with the limited circulation of BVDV caused by transiently viraemic cattle, virtually all susceptible cattle that came into contact with a persistently viraemic calf became seropositive within three months. Transplacental BVDV infections were not detected in the calves born to cows that had antibodies against the virus due to an infection that had occurred at least four years earlier. Transplacental transmission of BVDV did not occur in most of the pregnant cows that were infected before approximately the 60th day of gestation, but when cows became infected later in gestation the virus virtually always invaded the fetus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


pmid: 31664116
title: Compartmentalized evolution of Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus type 2 in an immunotolerant persistently infected cow
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is one of the most important pathogens of cattle worldwide. BVDV-1 is widely distributed in Italy, while BVDV-2 has been detected occasionally. BVDV can be classified in two biotypes, cytopathic (CP) or noncytopathic (NCP). The characteristic of the virus is linked with the infection of a pregnant dam with a NCP strain: due to viral establishment before maturation of the fetal immune system the calf remains persistently infected (PI) and immunotolerant to the infecting BVDV strain. Thanks to their immunotolerance, PI animals represent a unique model to study the viral distribution and compartmentalization in absence of immunoresponse in vivo. In the present study, NGS sequencing was used to characterize the BVDV2 viral strain infecting a PI calf and to describe the viral quasispecies in tissues. Even if the consensus sequences obtained by all the samples were highly similar, quasispecies was described evaluating the presence and the frequency of variants among all the sequencing reads in each tissue. The results suggest a high heterogeneity of the infecting viral strain suggesting viral compartmentalization. The quasispecies analysis highlights the complex dynamics of viral population structure and can increase the knowledge about viral evolution in BVDV-2 persistently infected animals.


pmid: 22198538
title: Serological evaluation of relationship between viral pathogens (BHV-1, BVDV, BRSV, PI-3V, and Adeno3) and dairy calf pneumonia by indirect ELISA
abstract: In this study, viral pathogens associated with nine outbreaks of naturally occurring dairy calf pneumonia in Mashhad area of Khorasan Razavi province from September 2008 to May 2009 were assessed. Five diseased calves from each farm were chosen for examination. Acute and convalescent serum samples were taken from calves with signs of respiratory disease. Sera were analyzed for antibodies to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BHV-1), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), parainfluenza virus type 3 (PI-3V), and bovine adenovirus-3 (BAV-3) by indirect ELISA kits. Among 42 serum samples collected at sample 1, seroprevalence values for viruses BHV-1, BVDV, BRSV, PI-3V, and BAV-3 were 61.9% (26), 57.1% (24), 64.2% (27), 90% (38), and 61.9% (26), respectively. Seroconversion to BVDV, BRSV, PI-3V, and BAV-3 occurred in 11.9% (5), 16.6% (7), 26.1% (11), and 21.4% (9) of animals, and 52.3% (22) had generated antibodies against one or more viral infections at sample 2. In addition, no significant relationship between seroprevalence of BHV-1, BVDV, BRSV, PI-3V, and BAV-3 and dairy herd size was observed (P > 0.05). According to serological findings, BHV-1, BVDV, BRSV, PI-3V, and BAV-3 are common pathogens of the dairy calf pneumonia in dairy herds in Mashhad area of Khorasan Razavi province, Iran.


pmid: 21978163
title: Small interfering RNAs targeting viral structural envelope protein genes and the 5ʹ-UTR inhibit replication of bovine viral diarrhea virus in MDBK cells
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDVs) are important pathogens of cattle that occur worldwide, and for which no antiviral therapy is available. In the present study, the inhibitory effect of small interfering (si) RNAs on bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1) replication in cultured bovine cells was explored. Four synthetic siRNAs were designed to target structural envelope region genes (Erns, E1, and E2) and one cocktail of siRNA was generated to target the 5ʹ-UTR of the BVDV-1 genome. The inhibitory effects of siRNAs were assessed by determination of infectious viral titer, viral antigen and viral RNA. The siRNA cocktail and three of the synthetic siRNAs produced moderate anti-BVDV-1 effect in vitro as shown by 25%-40% reduction in BVDV-1 antigen production, 7.9-19.9-fold reduction in viral titer and 21-48-fold reduction in BVDV-1 RNA copy number. Our findings suggest that siRNA cocktail targeted at the 5ʹ-UTR is a stronger inhibitor of BVDV-1 replication and the targets for siRNA inhibition can be extended to BVDV-1 structural envelope protein genes.


pmid: 30477957
title: The evaluation of an immunoperoxidase assay applicable in antiviral drug screening
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) fall into cytopathic (CP) and noncytopathic (NCP) biotypes, based on their ability to kill cultured cells. NCP-BVDV can not be titrated by conventional means as used for CP-BVDV, which has impeded the identification of antiviral drugs targeting NCP-BVDV virus strains. In this study, the application of an immunoperoxidase assay in the screening of antiviral drugs was tested using two known BVDV inhibitors, ribavirin and ammonium chloride (NH4Cl). Phospholipase C inhibitor U73122 was identified to affect BVDV infection by using this immunoperoxidase assay. In addition, the results of immunoperoxidase assay were validated by real-time PCR. Taken together, the immunoperoxidase assay is a useful and versatile method suitable for antiviral drug screening targeting NCP-BVDV.


pmid: 2161595
title: Intracellular virus-induced polypeptides of pestivirus border disease virus
abstract: Intracellular virus specific polypeptides of pestivirus, border disease virus (BDV) in bovine turbinate cells were analysed by radio-immunoprecipitation with specific antisera. Eleven viral polypeptides with molecular weights of 220, 165, 118, 84, 66, 58, 55, 53, 45, 37 and 31 kDa, respectively, were detected in infected cells. Of these, the 165, 118, 84, 66, 58, 55, 53, 45 and 31 kDa proteins were found to be glycosylated. Comparative studies indicated that the polypeptides induced by BDV share many antigenic epitopes with those of the polypeptides induced by bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a serologically related virus of the same genus, pestivirus. The polypeptide profile of BDV appeared to be more similar to that of the noncytopathic BVDV strain NY1 compared to that of cytopathic BVDV strains NADL and Singer. Peptide mapping analysis of homologous polypeptides from BVDV and BDV confirmed their structural relatedness.


pmid: 2546339
title: Evaluation of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for detection of antibodies to bovine virus diarrhoea virus in milk
abstract: The present study shows that milk is an appropriate source for detection of seroreactors to bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV). There was close agreement between antibody titres in serum and in skim milk, as determined by an indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The antibody titres were usually lower in skim milk than in serum, but all seropositive cows (n = 84) were also skim milk-positive and all but one seronegative cow (n = 55) proved negative in skim milk. During lactation, the level of antibodies to BVDV in milk showed an inverse relationship to the amount of milk produced. However, there was a sufficient level of antibodies in milk throughout lactation to permit an adequate determination of BVDV antibody status in dairy cows. There was a mutual good agreement between milk antibody titre in the four mammary quarters, irrespective of milk cell count. Milk can be used to detect seroreactors to BVDV. Milk is preferable to blood in large-scale epidemiological studies, since the sampling procedure is much simpler.


pmid: 22332304
title: Fatal congenital anaplasmosis associated with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection in a crossbred calf
abstract: Clinical disease resulting from the vertical transmission of Anaplasma marginale has only been reported on 5 occasions despite studies demonstrating successful in utero transmission. During the reported experimental induction of congenital anaplasmosis in calves, the outcome was variable but mostly led to inapparent or mild infection. There are previous case reports of fatal congenital anaplasmosis following natural infection. The clinical findings in a 2-day-old calf presented to the Onderstepoort Veterinary Academic Hospital with clinical signs of congenital anaplasmosis, which was unresponsive to treatment, are described. Subsequent post mortem diagnostic tests revealed that this calf was co-infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). It is postulated that immunosuppression resulting from BVDV infection predisposed to severe, fatal anaplasmosis in this calf.


pmid: 17582710
title: Variation in E(rns) viral glycoprotein associated with failure of immunohistochemistry and commercial antigen capture ELISA to detect a field strain of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) affects cattle populations causing clinical signs that range from subclinical immunosuppression to severe reproductive and respiratory problems. Detection and removal of persistently infected (PI) calves is the single most important factor for control and eradication of BVDV. Current testing strategies to detect PI calves rely heavily on immunohistochemistry (IHC) and a commercially available antigen capture ELISA (ACE) assay. These viral assays depend on 1 or 2 monoclonal antibodies which target the E(rns) glycoprotein of BVDV. The sensitivity and specificity of these two tests have been reported previously. The purpose of this research was to characterize a strain of BVDV (AU501) that was undetectable using IHC and ACE based on a single monoclonal antibody, but was consistently detected in samples from a Holstein steer using virus isolation and PCR testing. Sequencing of this AU501 viral isolate revealed a unique mutation in the portion of the genome coding for the E(rns) glycoprotein. This unique field strain of BVDV demonstrates the risk of relying on a single monoclonal antibody for detection of BVDV. Multiple testing strategies, including polyclonal or pooled monoclonal antibodies that detect more than one viral glycoprotein may be necessary to detect all PI calves and facilitate eradication of BVDV.


pmid: 17325347
title: Evaluation of the vaccine potential of an equine herpesvirus type 1 vector expressing bovine viral diarrhea virus structural proteins
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an economically important pathogen of cattle that is maintained in the population by persistently infected animals. Virus infection may result in reproductive failure, respiratory disease and diarrhoea in naïve, susceptible bovines. Here, the construction and characterization of a novel vectored vaccine, which is based on the incorporation of genes encoding BVDV structural proteins (C, Erns, E1, E2) into a bacterial artificial chromosome of the equine herpesvirus type 1 (EHV-1) vaccine strain RacH, are reported. The reconstituted vectored virus, rH_BVDV, expressed BVDV structural proteins efficiently and was indistinguishable from parental vector virus with respect to growth properties in cultured cells. Intramuscular immunization of seronegative cattle with rH_BVDV resulted in induction of BVDV-specific serum neutralizing and ELISA antibodies. Upon experimental challenge infection of immunized calves with the heterologous BVDV strain Ib SE5508, a strong anamnestic boost of the neutralizing-antibody response was observed in all vaccinated animals. Immunized animals presented with reduced viraemia levels and decreased nasal virus shedding, and maintained higher leukocyte counts than mock-vaccinated controls.


pmid: 12018682
title: Inhibition of the bovine viral diarrhoea virus NS3 serine protease by a boron-modified peptidyl mimetic of its natural substrate
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is closely related to hepatitis C virus (HCV), and has been used as a surrogate virus in drug development for HCV infection. Similar to HCV, BVDV-encoded NS3 serine proteinase is responsible for multiple cleavages in the viral polyprotein, generating mature NS4A, NS4B, NS5A and NS5B proteins. NS3-dependent cleavage sites of BVDV contain a strictly conserved leucine at P1, and either serine or alanine at P1'. The full length BVDV NS3/4A serine protease has been cloned and expressed in bacterial cells. The enzyme has been purified from the soluble portion of Escherichia coli via a two-step purification procedure employing chromatography on heparin resin and gel filtration. The protease activity was characterized using in vitro translated BVDV NS4A/B and NS5A/B polyprotein substrates. A boronic acid analogue of the BVDV NS4A/NS4B cleavage site was synthesized and shown to be an efficient inhibitor of the NS3 serine protease in vitro. The compound, designated DPC-AB9144-00, inhibited approximately 75% of the NS3/4 activity at 10 microM with the NS4A/B substrate. However, no antiviral activity was detected with DPC-AB9144-00 in BVDV-infected Madin-Darby bovine kidney cells at concentrations as great as 90 pM, suggesting permeability or that other cellular-derived limitations were present.


pmid: 10690773
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus cytopathic and noncytopathic biotypes and type 1 and 2 genotypes in diagnostic laboratory accessions: clinical and necropsy samples from cattle
abstract: One hundred three bovine samples submitted to the Oklahoma Animal Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (OADDL) that were positive for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were typed by a nested reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction for BVDV genotypes. These BVDV samples included supernatants from virus isolation (79), serums (17), and buffy coats (7). The biotype, cytopathic (CP) or noncytopathic (NCP), was determined by cell culture virus isolation. Twenty-eight of 103 samples were submitted for herd screening for BVDV, 32 from OADDL necropsy cases, and 43 from live cattle with varied clinical conditions. Two samples contained 2 bands indicating presence of both BVDV types 1 and 2. Of the 105 BVDV samples, 26 were type 1 CP strains (24.8%), 38 were type 1 NCP strains (36.2%), 10 were type 2 CP strains (9.5%), and 31 were type 2 NCP strains (29.5%). From the 105 BVDV isolates, NCP biotypes were isolated more frequently (69, 65.7%) than CP biotypes (36, 34.3%), and type 1 genotypes were more frequently isolated (64, 61.00%) than type 2 genotypes (41, 39.0%). The NCP strains were more common than CP in herd screening samples. Cattle with respiratory disease history at time of sampling had more NCP than CP biotypes and more type 1 than type 2 genotypes. Of the necropsy cases, more were type 1 than type 2 genotypes for the respiratory cases with fibrinous pneumonia, more were type 1 than type 2 genotypes in cattle with enteritis/colitis without systemic lesions, and more were CP than NCP biotypes in cattle with enteritis/colitis with systemic lesions. No CP biotype was isolated from serum samples.


pmid: 10516051
title: Establishment and characterization of cytopathogenic and noncytopathogenic pestivirus replicons
abstract: Defective interfering particles (DIs) of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) have been identified and shown to be cytopathogenic (cp) in the presence of noncytopathogenic (noncp) helper virus. Moreover, a subgenomic (sg) RNA corresponding in its genome structure to one of those BVDV DIs (DI9) was replication competent in the absence of helper virus. We report here that an sg BVDV replicon which encodes from the viral proteins only the first three amino acids of the autoprotease N(pro) in addition to nonstructural (NS) proteins NS3 to NS5B replicates autonomously and also induces lysis of its host cells. This demonstrates that the presence of a helper virus is not required for the lysis of the host cell. On the basis of two infectious BVDV cDNA clones, namely, BVDV CP7 (cp) and CP7ins- (noncp), bicistronic replicons expressing proteins NS2-3 to NS5B were established. These replicons express, in addition to the viral proteins, the reporter gene encoding beta-glucuronidase; the release of this enzyme from transfected culture cells was used to monitor cell lysis. Applying these tools, we were able to show that the replicon derived from CP7ins- does not induce cell lysis. Accordingly, neither N(pro) nor any of the structural proteins are necessary to maintain the noncp phenotype. Furthermore, these sg RNAs represent the first pair of cp and noncp replicons which mimic complete BVDV CP7 and CP7ins- with respect to cytopathogenicity. These replicons will facilitate future studies aimed at the determination of the molecular basis for the cytopathogenicity of BVDV.


pmid: 30258185
title: A meta-analysis of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) prevalences in the global cattle population
abstract: A random effect meta-analysis was performed to estimate the worldwide pooled bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) prevalences of persistently infected (PI), viraemic (VI) and antibody-positive (AB) animals and herds. The meta-analysis covered 325 studies in 73 countries that determined the presence or absence of BVDV infections in cattle from 1961 to 2016. In total, 6.5 million animals and 310,548 herds were tested for BVDV infections in the global cattle population. The worldwide pooled PI prevalences at animal level ranged from low (≤0.8% Europe, North America, Australia), medium (>0.8% to 1.6% East Asia) to high (>1.6% West Asia). The PI and AB prevalences in Europe decreased over time, while BVDV prevalence increased in North America. The highest mean pooled PI prevalences at animal level were identified in countries that had failed to implement any BVDV control and/or eradication programmes (including vaccination). Our analysis emphasizes the need for more standardised epidemiological studies to support decision-makers implementing animal health policies for non-globally-regulated animal diseases.


pmid: 29426405
title: Bta-miR-2411 attenuates bovine viral diarrhea virus replication via directly suppressing Pelota protein in Madin-Darby bovine kidney cells
abstract: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous ∼22 nt noncoding RNAs that control the translation initiation and stability of target genes in a sequence-specific manner and, thus, play important regulatory roles in animals and plants. Homologs of Dom34, called Pelota or PELO, are broadly conserved in eukaryotes and archaea. Biochemical and genetic studies indicate that eukaryotic Dom34/Pelota plays an important role in cell division, differentiation of germline stem cells, and stem cell self-renewal by controlling the expression of specific genes at the translational level. Additionally, it is reported that Pelota is specifically required for high efficiency synthesis of proteins in numerous viruses. In earlier studies, we found the Bos taurus bta-miR-2411 (shortly miR-2411 herein) was significantly upregulated by more than 2.1 times in bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strain NADL-infected Madin-Darby bovine kidney (MDBK) cells after 8 h post-infection (pi) compared to normal MDBK cells without BVDV infection. Moreover, miR-2411 overexpression significantly reduced the BVDV E1 mRNA level and viral titer. Nevertheless, the mechanisms of miR-2411 attenuating on viral replication remain unclear. Here, we report that miR-2411 as a novel microRNA regulates BVDV NADL replication via directly targeting the Pelota gene in MDBK cells. We investigated whether the potential target sequences of miR-2411, located in the Pelota 3'UTR, and miR-2411 agomir transfection attenuated Pelota mRNA and protein levels. Indeed, upon miR-2411 overexpression, BVDV NADL replication was prevented. Importantly, BVDV NADL replication levels were reversed to normal levels as a result of the Pelota rescuing experiment even though miR-2411 was existent. Overall, we profiled the unique role of miR-2411 in regulating BVDV NADL replication and provided a novel strategy for generalized inhibition of viral infection.


pmid: 20572347
title: [Genome sequencing and analysis of the bovine viral diarrhea virus-2 strain JZ05-1 isolated in China]
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a member of the genus Pestivirus, which is a widespread problem for beef and dairy herds, and has given rise to a significant loss in the livestock industry all over the world. The BVDV strain JZ05-1 isolated from cattle in Jilin, China generated cytopathic effect (CPE) in MDBK cells. Eight overlapped gene fragments were amplified by RT-PCR and sequenced, the complete genom sequence of BVDV strain JZ05-1 was assembled. According to the results, the JZ05-1 genome was composed of 12285 nucleotides in length (GenBank accession No. GQ888686), which could be divided into three regions: a 387 nt 5'-untranslated region (UTR), a 11694 nt single large open reading frame encoding a polyprotein, and a 204 nt 3'-UTR. The 5'-UTR and genome sequences were analyzed by sequence alignment and construction of phylogenetic trees. The strain JZ05-1 was classified as BVDV type 2a. The BVDV-2 strain JZ05-1 genome showed high similarity to the p11Q isolated in Canada and the XJ-04 isolated in China, with 90% and 91% identity in nucleotide sequence, respectively. Compared with the similarity within the BVDV-2 genotype (96%), the JZ05-1 had low sequence similarity to other BVDV-2 strains.


pmid: 15288923
title: Characterisation of a type 2 bovine viral diarrhoea virus isolated from cattle in the UK
abstract: Two genotypes of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) are recognised. Type 2 was first recognised when virulent strains caused significant losses among cattle in North America. Subsequently, BVDV type 2 has been found in many other countries, but recent studies have shown that only type 1 BVDV is circulating in the UK herds (sheep and cattle) with type 1a predominating. During routine genotyping of UK BVDV isolates, a type 2 isolate was identified. Phylogenetic analysis of the 5'-untranslated region of the viral genome showed it to be a BVDV type 2a, most similar to a low virulent US strain of BVDV type 2. Antigenic typing with a panel of monoclonal antibodies verified this classification. This is the first confirmed isolation of BVDV type 2 found circulating in the UK.


pmid: 22521286
title: Construction of chimeric bovine viral diarrhea viruses containing glycoprotein E rns of heterologous pestiviruses and evaluation of the chimeras as potential marker vaccines against BVDV
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections are enzootic in the cattle population and continue to cause significant economic losses to the beef and dairy industries worldwide. Extent of the damages has stimulated increasing interest in control programs directed at eradicating BVDV infections. Use of a BVDV marker vaccine would facilitate eradication efforts as a negatively marked vaccine would enable differentiation of infected from vaccinated animals (DIVA). We describe here the construction of three chimeric BVDVs containing glycoprotein E(rns) of heterologous pestiviruses and the evaluation of the chimera viruses as potential marker vaccines against BVDV infections. Chimeric NADL/G-E(rns), NADL/R-E(rns), and NADL/P-E(rns) were constructed by replacing the E(rns) gene of the full-length BVDV (NADL strain) genome with the E(rns) genes of giraffe (G-E(rns)), reindeer (R-E(rns)), or pronghorn antelope (P-E(rns)) pestiviruses, respectively. Each chimeric NADL virus was viable and infectious in RD 420 (bovine testicular) and BK-6 (bovine kidney) cells. By immunohistochemistry assays, NADL/G-E(rns) and NADL/R-E(rns) chimeric viruses reacted to BVDV E(rns) specific monoclonal antibody (mAb) 15C5, whereas the NADL/P-E(rns) chimeric virus did not. In an animal vaccination study, inactivated vaccines made from two chimeric viruses and the wild type NADL BVDV induced similar neutralizing antibody responses. NADL/P-E(rns)-vaccinated animals were distinguished from animals vaccinated with the wild type virus by means of a companion serological DIVA assay. These results show that chimeric NADL/P-E(rns) virus containing the E(rns) gene of pronghorn antelope pestivirus could be a potential marker vaccine candidate for use in a BVDV control and eradication program.


pmid: 11376844
title: Prevalence of genotypes 1 and 2 of bovine viral diarrhea virus in Lower Saxony, Germany
abstract: The aim of this study was to find whether an antigenic drift had occurred in Lower Saxony in the past 40 years. For this, the genetic diversity of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolates mainly from Lower Saxony was estimated by RT-PCR and sequencing of a 420 bp fragment of the E2 glycoprotein gene. Sixty-one field virus isolates collected during routine diagnostics between 1960 and 2000 in Lower Saxony, Northern Germany, were analyzed. Phylogenetic analysis allowed discrimination of genotypes BVDV 1 and 2. Excepting two isolates, which were of BVDV type 2, most of the isolates were classified as BVDV type 1. This group could be further subdivided into four subgroups and one disparate isolate. Independent of the year of isolation and geographical localization, 54 isolates clustered in two subtypes (BVDV subtypes 1b and 1d). Only one isolate was classified as BVDV type 1a, thus being similar to the North American NADL strain, and to the vaccine strain Oregon C24V, which was extensively used for vaccination in Germany. The remaining isolates belonged to new clusters tentatively designated as BVDV subtypes 1g and 1f. To compare the cluster designation with that of other studies, phylogenetic analysis of representatives of each of the subgroups based on the 5' untranslated region (5'UTR) was performed. It grouped the viruses similarly. The results indicate that the BVDV population seems to be relatively stable over 40 years in Lower Saxony.


pmid: 2547817
title: Development of monoclonal neutralizing antibodies against bovine viral diarrhea virus after pretreatment of mice with normal bovine cells and cyclophosphamide
abstract: After immunization of mice with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) concentrated by ultracentrifugation only antibodies against normal cellular constituents were detectable. Monoclonal and polyclonal anti-BVDV antibodies were obtained, however, after induction of tolerance against normal bovine cellular antigens by pretreatment of adult mice with bovine cells and cyclophosphamide followed by immunization with BVDV containing material.


pmid: 4265548
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus in swine: characteristics of virus recovered from naturally and experimentally infected swine
abstract: A noncytopathogenic field strain of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was isolated from an Iowa farm brood sow and from her hysterectomy-derived, colostrum-deprived (HDCD) piglets. This field isolant was fully virulent for a neonatal calf. The NADL strain of BVDV was passaged through a series of HDCD piglets with no resultant loss of virulence for neonatal calves. Most of the BVD viral isolants recovered from pigs had been changed from a cytopathogenic biotype to a noncytopathogenic biotype. Circumstantial evidence points to swine as "carrier" hosts of BVDV.


pmid: 31259361
title: Analysis of tRNA halves (tsRNAs) in serum from cattle challenged with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Acute infections of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) lead to a range of clinical presentations. Laboratory tests for detection depend on collection of samples during a short viremia. Acutely infected animals remain largely undiagnosed. Transfer RNA halves (tsRNAs) are hypothesized to function like microRNAs to regulate gene expression during an immune response. The objective of this study was to identify tsRNAs in cattle that had been challenged with a non-cytopathic field strain of BVDV. Colostrum-deprived neonatal Holstein calves were either challenged with BVDV (n=5) or mock challenged (n=4). Sera was collected prior to challenge and days 4, 9, and 16 post challenge. RNA was extracted and read counts of small non-coding RNAs were assessed using next-generation sequencing. A total of 87,838,207 reads identified 41 different tsRNAs. Two 5' tsRNAs, tsRNAProAGG and tsRNAValAAC, differed across time. Two 5' tsRNAs, tsRNAGlyCCC and tsRNAGlyGCC, differed between treatment groups across time. Four days post challenge, 5' tsRNAGlyCCC and tsRNAGlyGCC were significantly lower in the challenged group than the control group. Further studies are needed to identify the importance and function of 5' tsRNAGlyCCC and tsRNAGlyGCC in serum samples of cattle challenged with BVDV.


pmid: 20057177
title: A case control study of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) Persistent Infection (PI) in Betsukai, Hokkaido, Japan
abstract: The Betsukai town office implemented bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) preventive activities (i.e., vaccination and surveillance) in 2006. Using bulk tank milk screening followed by individual blood tests using a Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) method, persistent infection (PI) cattle were detected and eliminated from the population. Based on data for PI cattle detected between 2006 and 2007, we conducted a case control study to find risk factors associated with the presence of PI cattle. Significantly associated farm level factors for increasing risk of producing PI cattle include; 1) no recent purchase of cattle (between 2004 and 2007) and 2) no prevention of people/animals entering the premises. This study suggests that not only vertical transmission from dam to calf but also indirect contact with people and animals play an important role in transmitting BVDV infection and subsequent production of PI animals.


pmid: 26579094
title: Pestivirus infection in reindeer (Rangifer tarandus)
abstract: Reindeer species (Rangifer tarandus, Linnaeus, 1758) includes wild and semi-domesticated ruminants belonging to Capreaolinae subfamily of Cervidae family reared in Eurasia (reindeer subspecies) and North America (caribou subspecies). Herding of reindeer has a great historical, socio-economic and ecological importance, especially to indigenous ethnic minorities. Infectious disease threats may therefore impact not solely the animal population driving it to further extinction and irreversible alterations to the wild environments of northern hemisphere, but also add to cultural changes observed as negative impact of globalization. Introduction of new technologies to control of reindeer migration between dwindling pasture areas and intensification of reindeer husbandry may facilitate the intra- and interspecies transmission of pathogens. The role of the reindeer as a potential BVDV reservoir has been studied, however, the number of publications is rather limited. The observed seroprevalences of the virus varied significantly between different geographical regions with different epidemiological situation. Most frequently limited number of animals studied and the differences in the sensitivities and specificities of the diagnostic test used could have also influenced on the differences between the studies. No pestivirus has been ever detected in free-ranging reindeer, however, a putative pestivirus strain named V60-Krefeld has been isolated from reindeer kept at a German Zoo in the 1990's. The virus was characterized as border disease virus type 2 (BDV-2) closely related to German ovine strains. The cross-neutralization studies of the semi-domesticated reindeer sera from Sweden suggested infection with a strain related to BDV-1 or BDV-2. The available data indicates that reindeer might be infected by a endemic species-specific BDV-like strain. However, the interspecies transmission of BVDV from domestic animals should not be excluded, since the susceptibility of reindeer to BVDV-1 has been confirmed under experimental conditions.


pmid: 25384138
title: Pestiviruses
abstract: Pestiviruses cause economically important diseases among domestic ruminants and pigs, but they may also infect a wide spectrum of wild species of even-toed ungulates (Artiodactyla). Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and Border disease virus of sheep infect their hosts either transiently or persistently. Cellular and humoral immunotolerance to the infecting strain is a unique feature of persistent infection (PI) by ruminant pestiviruses. Persistence, caused by transplacental infection early in fetal development, depends on virally encoded interferon antagonists that inactivate the host's innate immune response to the virus without globally interfering with its function against other viruses. At epidemiological equilibrium, approximately 1-2% of animals are PI. Successful BVDV control programs show that removal of PI animals results in viral extinction in the host population. The nucleotide sequences of ruminant pestiviruses change little during persistent infection. Nevertheless, they display large heterogeneity, pointing to a long history of virus-host coevolution in which avirulent strains are more successful.


pmid: 11448496
title: A Bayesian approach to estimating the performance of a bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) antibody ELISA bulk-tank milk test
abstract: We investigated the operational performance (sensitivity and specificity) of a bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) antibody ELISA bulk-tank milk test for predicting the herd BVDV antibody status in young stock (as a relatively precise indicator of active BVDV infection). The study was based on results from the annual screenings under the Norwegian bovine virus diarrhoea (BVD) control and eradication program, lasting from 1993 to 1997. Empirical information from these annual screenings was the basis for prior assumptions about the true prevalence of young-stock-positive herds. Assumptions about prior distributions for sensitivity and specificity were based on the literature. Improved posterior test performance estimates were achieved applying a Bayesian approach using Gibbs sampling simulation. The simulations were run separately for each year, and yielded median values for sensitivity of 87% at the cut-off used in the BVD program. The posterior distributions were wide indicating much uncertainty in these estimates. The specificity estimates ranged from 79 to 92% and had narrower posterior estimates. The estimates differed by year. When running the same simulation procedures at a lower cut-off --after altering the sensitivity and specificity priors--the median sensitivity estimates increased to about 95%; the median specificity ranged from 71 to 83%. Due to low prevalence, the Bayesian method lacked power to assess the test sensitivity. A technically simpler descriptive graphing procedure (based on empirical information) provided equally useful insight into the bulk-tank milk test performance.


pmid: 10441551
title: Induction of humoral and cellular immune responses against the nucleocapsid of bovine viral diarrhea virus by an adenovirus vector with an inducible promoter
abstract: A new recombinant adenovirus was constructed that expressed the nucleocapsid (C protein or p14) of the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) under the control of a tetracycline-regulatable promoter. Mice covaccinated with this recombinant adenovirus, accompanied by another recombinant adenovirus expressing the trans-activator protein, induced a strong humoral immune response to the BVDV/C protein as detected by ELISA. Splenocytes from mice immunized with the recombinant adenovirus showed a specific proliferation response to both genotypes (type 1 and 2) of BVDV. High levels of IFN-gamma were detected in the supernatant of murine mononuclear cells of mice immunized by the recombinant adenovirus when stimulated in vitro by both genotypes of BVDV. These results indicate that this recombinant adenovirus is highly immunogenic and stimulates both cellular and humoral immune responses against the nucleocapsid of BVDV.


pmid: 9008798
title: Antigenic variation among bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strains and the role of different cell fixation methods in immunoassays
abstract: Antigenic variation among 13 Quebec isolates of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), 4 reference strains and 2 American isolates were studied by peroxidase-linked antibody assay (PLA assay) and neutralization test (NT). The Quebec strains consisted of 3 isolates before 1993 and 10 isolates from 1993. In the PLA assay, we compared 2 different fixatives, acetone and formalin. Acetone-fixation allowed us to identify 6 groups from amongst the viruses tested. All the Quebec isolates were different from the reference strains. In addition, antigenic variation was detected between Quebec isolates obtained before and during 1993. However, PLA assays performed after formalin fixation did not detect these antigenic variations. Neutralization tests were carried out with 2 polyclonal antibodies (PAb) and 6 monoclonal antibodies (MAb). They were used to classify BVDV strains and isolates into 4 groups and 7 subgroups respectively. In conclusion, we demonstrated that the BVDV isolates from the 1993 outbreak in Quebec are antigenically different from reference strains and from isolates existing in Quebec before 1993. In addition, we have shown that 2 internationally used fixation-methods in PLA assay give different results. The usefulness of each method is discussed.


pmid: 10779200
title: Clinical response and immunomodulation following experimental challenge of calves with type 2 noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Eight calves between 16 and 18 weeks of age that were seronegative to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine leucosis virus and bovine immunodeficiency-like virus were infected (day 0) intranasally with the type 2 noncytopathogenic Canadian 24515 field isolate of BVDV in order to evaluate the effect of BVDV infection on certain clinical, hematological and immunological parameters. All virus-exposed animals developed fever and showed a significant (P < 0.05, 0.01 or 0.001) drop in the number of circulating leucocytes (neutrophils, lymphocytes and monocytes) by day 3 or 5 post-exposure (PE), which continued to the end of the experiment at day 12 PE. BVDV was consistently isolated from the peripheral blood buffy coat cells from day 5 PE, and also from selected tissues (spleen, thymus, mesenteric and submaxillary lymph nodes, small intestine, lungs and thyroid gland) that were collected at the time of euthanasia of the animals at day 12 PE. Diminished significant (P < 0.05) percentages of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) expressing at their surface either B7 and MHC II molecules were observed in virus-exposed calves at days 7, 10 and/or 12 PE, when compared to virus-nonexposed control calves (n = 5). However, no changes in the percentages of PBMCs expressing either B4 or MHC I molecules were observed throughout the experiment. Finally, a significant (P < 0.05 or 0.01) enhanced phagocytic capability of the PBMCs, as analyzed by flow cytometry, was observed in virus-exposed animals at days 3, 5, 7, 10 and 12 PE, when compared to control calves. These results demonstrated the virulence of the 24515 isolate of BVDV in 4 to 4.5 month-old calves, and suggest that type 2 BVDV infection in calves is associated with dysregulation of certain immunological functions.


pmid: 9573238
title: Infectious bovine viral diarrhea virus (strain NADL) RNA from stable cDNA clones: a cellular insert determines NS3 production and viral cytopathogenicity
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), strain NADL, was originally isolated from an animal with fatal mucosal disease. This isolate is cytopathic in cell culture and produces two forms of NS3-containing proteins: uncleaved NS2-3 and mature NS3. For BVDV NADL, the production of NS3, a characteristic of cytopathic BVDV strains, is believed to be a consequence of an in-frame insertion of a 270-nucleotide cellular mRNA sequence (called cIns) in the NS2 coding region. In this study, we constructed a stable full-length cDNA copy of BVDV NADL in a low-copy-number plasmid vector. As assayed by transfection of MDBK cells, uncapped RNAs transcribed from this template were highly infectious (>10(5) PFU/microg). The recovered virus was similar in plaque morphology, growth properties, polyprotein processing, and cytopathogenicity to the BVDV NADL parent. Deletion of cIns abolished processing at the NS2/NS3 site and produced a virus that was no longer cytopathic for MDBK cells. This deletion did not affect the efficiency of infectious virus production or viral protein production, but it reduced the level of virus-specific RNA synthesis and accumulation. Thus, cIns not only modulates NS3 production but also upregulates RNA replication relative to an isogenic noncytopathic derivative lacking the insert. These results raise the possibility of a linkage between enhanced BVDV NADL RNA replication and virus-induced cytopathogenicity.


pmid: 8264668
title: The nucleotide sequence of the 5'-untranslated region of bovine viral diarrhoea virus: its use as a probe in rapid detection of bovine viral diarrhoea viruses and border disease viruses
abstract: A 289 bp cDNA fragment from the 5'-untranslated region (UTR) of 16 bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) isolates was amplified by reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction, and sequenced by dideoxy DNA sequencing. The sequence showed greater than 90% homology between the isolates and BVDV NADL in this region, and greater than 97% homology within a 72 base sub-region (nt 314-386). The 289 bp fragment was then used as a probe for rapid detection of BVDV and border disease virus (BDV) from cell culture samples by dot-blot hybridization. This probe hybridized to 100% of BVDV isolates (n = 78) and 100% of BDV isolates (n = 9), but not to the uninfected BT cells or other bovine infectious agents. A shorter probe from the more conserved sub-region also was tested for hybridization with some of the isolates, and the results were similar to those using the longer probe. These results suggest that the 5'-UTR is highly conserved among BVDV and BDV isolates, and may be used as a potential probe for rapid detection of BVDV and BDV in clinical and cell culture samples from cattle and sheep.


pmid: 17420041
title: Detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in single or small groups of preimplantation bovine embryos
abstract: The objectives of this study were to develop techniques to detect BVDV associated with single or small groups of bovine embryos contained in small aliquots of medium using either virus isolation (VI) or real time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-QPCR) assays. In vivo-derived and in vitro-produced bovine embryos at 7 d post-fertilization were exposed to SD-1, a high affinity strain of BVDV, for 2 h and then processed according to the International Embryo Transfer Society (IETS) guidelines prior to testing. Groups of five or two in vivo-derived embryos, and single in vivo-derived embryos, were VI positive for BVDV 100, 50, and 33% of the time, and were RT-QPCR positive 100, 75, and 42% of the time, respectively. The virus was detected by the VI technique in all of the groups of five or two in vitro-produced embryos and in all of the single in vitro-produced embryos, and it was detected in 100, 80, and 50%, using RT-QPCR. Techniques for RT-QPCR were sufficiently sensitive to detect 10 copies of viral RNA in a sample and to detect BVDV associated with single embryos. Application of this new technology, RT-QPCR, will facilitate additional studies to further assess the risk of transmission of BVDV through embryo transfer.


pmid: 10441551
title: Induction of humoral and cellular immune responses against the nucleocapsid of bovine viral diarrhea virus by an adenovirus vector with an inducible promoter
abstract: A new recombinant adenovirus was constructed that expressed the nucleocapsid (C protein or p14) of the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) under the control of a tetracycline-regulatable promoter. Mice covaccinated with this recombinant adenovirus, accompanied by another recombinant adenovirus expressing the trans-activator protein, induced a strong humoral immune response to the BVDV/C protein as detected by ELISA. Splenocytes from mice immunized with the recombinant adenovirus showed a specific proliferation response to both genotypes (type 1 and 2) of BVDV. High levels of IFN-gamma were detected in the supernatant of murine mononuclear cells of mice immunized by the recombinant adenovirus when stimulated in vitro by both genotypes of BVDV. These results indicate that this recombinant adenovirus is highly immunogenic and stimulates both cellular and humoral immune responses against the nucleocapsid of BVDV.


pmid: 9008798
title: Antigenic variation among bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strains and the role of different cell fixation methods in immunoassays
abstract: Antigenic variation among 13 Quebec isolates of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), 4 reference strains and 2 American isolates were studied by peroxidase-linked antibody assay (PLA assay) and neutralization test (NT). The Quebec strains consisted of 3 isolates before 1993 and 10 isolates from 1993. In the PLA assay, we compared 2 different fixatives, acetone and formalin. Acetone-fixation allowed us to identify 6 groups from amongst the viruses tested. All the Quebec isolates were different from the reference strains. In addition, antigenic variation was detected between Quebec isolates obtained before and during 1993. However, PLA assays performed after formalin fixation did not detect these antigenic variations. Neutralization tests were carried out with 2 polyclonal antibodies (PAb) and 6 monoclonal antibodies (MAb). They were used to classify BVDV strains and isolates into 4 groups and 7 subgroups respectively. In conclusion, we demonstrated that the BVDV isolates from the 1993 outbreak in Quebec are antigenically different from reference strains and from isolates existing in Quebec before 1993. In addition, we have shown that 2 internationally used fixation-methods in PLA assay give different results. The usefulness of each method is discussed.


pmid: 33409702
title: Molecular characterization and comparison of diagnostic methods for bovine respiratory viruses (BPIV-3, BRSV, BVDV, and BoHV-1) in field samples in northwestern Turkey
abstract: The aim of this study was to evaluate the compatibility among virus isolation (VI), ELISA, and PCR for diagnosis of the major viral agents (BPIV-3, BRSV, BVDV, and BoHV-1) responsible for BRD in the field samples. For that purpose, a total of 193 samples (133 nasal swabs and 60 lung tissue samples) from cattle with respiratory signs in northwestern Turkey were examined. For VI, all the samples were inoculated at least 3 blind passages onto MDBK cell culture. In addition, the samples were tested by hemadsorption assay and RT-PCR for BPIV-3; nested RT-PCR for BRSV; immunoperoxidase monolayer assay, antigen-ELISA, and RT-PCR for BVDV; and antigen-ELISA and PCR for BoHV-1. The detected 1 (0.52%) BPIV-3 isolate was found to be in the genotype BPIV-3c. No BRSV isolate could be obtained, while 5 (2.59%) samples were evaluated positive in nested-RT PCR. The presence of BVDV antigen in 10 (5.18%) samples and the BVDV genome in 5 (2.59%) samples were detected, while non-cytopathogenic BVDV isolates were obtained only in 2 (1.04%) samples. The detected BVDV strains fell into the genetic clusters of BVDV-1a, -1f, and -1l. For detection of BoHV-1, although viral isolation and Ag-ELISA results were negative, presence of BoHV-1.1 genome was detected in 2 (1.04%) samples. By the results of VI, ELISA, and PCRs, 10.88% (21/193) of samples were found positive for the evaluated viruses. Depending on the obtained data, combined uses of the diagnostic methods were evaluated to be more reliable for routine diagnosis of bovine respiratory viruses.


pmid: 17420041
title: Detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in single or small groups of preimplantation bovine embryos
abstract: The objectives of this study were to develop techniques to detect BVDV associated with single or small groups of bovine embryos contained in small aliquots of medium using either virus isolation (VI) or real time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-QPCR) assays. In vivo-derived and in vitro-produced bovine embryos at 7 d post-fertilization were exposed to SD-1, a high affinity strain of BVDV, for 2 h and then processed according to the International Embryo Transfer Society (IETS) guidelines prior to testing. Groups of five or two in vivo-derived embryos, and single in vivo-derived embryos, were VI positive for BVDV 100, 50, and 33% of the time, and were RT-QPCR positive 100, 75, and 42% of the time, respectively. The virus was detected by the VI technique in all of the groups of five or two in vitro-produced embryos and in all of the single in vitro-produced embryos, and it was detected in 100, 80, and 50%, using RT-QPCR. Techniques for RT-QPCR were sufficiently sensitive to detect 10 copies of viral RNA in a sample and to detect BVDV associated with single embryos. Application of this new technology, RT-QPCR, will facilitate additional studies to further assess the risk of transmission of BVDV through embryo transfer.


pmid: 10779200
title: Clinical response and immunomodulation following experimental challenge of calves with type 2 noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Eight calves between 16 and 18 weeks of age that were seronegative to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine leucosis virus and bovine immunodeficiency-like virus were infected (day 0) intranasally with the type 2 noncytopathogenic Canadian 24515 field isolate of BVDV in order to evaluate the effect of BVDV infection on certain clinical, hematological and immunological parameters. All virus-exposed animals developed fever and showed a significant (P < 0.05, 0.01 or 0.001) drop in the number of circulating leucocytes (neutrophils, lymphocytes and monocytes) by day 3 or 5 post-exposure (PE), which continued to the end of the experiment at day 12 PE. BVDV was consistently isolated from the peripheral blood buffy coat cells from day 5 PE, and also from selected tissues (spleen, thymus, mesenteric and submaxillary lymph nodes, small intestine, lungs and thyroid gland) that were collected at the time of euthanasia of the animals at day 12 PE. Diminished significant (P < 0.05) percentages of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) expressing at their surface either B7 and MHC II molecules were observed in virus-exposed calves at days 7, 10 and/or 12 PE, when compared to virus-nonexposed control calves (n = 5). However, no changes in the percentages of PBMCs expressing either B4 or MHC I molecules were observed throughout the experiment. Finally, a significant (P < 0.05 or 0.01) enhanced phagocytic capability of the PBMCs, as analyzed by flow cytometry, was observed in virus-exposed animals at days 3, 5, 7, 10 and 12 PE, when compared to control calves. These results demonstrated the virulence of the 24515 isolate of BVDV in 4 to 4.5 month-old calves, and suggest that type 2 BVDV infection in calves is associated with dysregulation of certain immunological functions.


pmid: 9573238
title: Infectious bovine viral diarrhea virus (strain NADL) RNA from stable cDNA clones: a cellular insert determines NS3 production and viral cytopathogenicity
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), strain NADL, was originally isolated from an animal with fatal mucosal disease. This isolate is cytopathic in cell culture and produces two forms of NS3-containing proteins: uncleaved NS2-3 and mature NS3. For BVDV NADL, the production of NS3, a characteristic of cytopathic BVDV strains, is believed to be a consequence of an in-frame insertion of a 270-nucleotide cellular mRNA sequence (called cIns) in the NS2 coding region. In this study, we constructed a stable full-length cDNA copy of BVDV NADL in a low-copy-number plasmid vector. As assayed by transfection of MDBK cells, uncapped RNAs transcribed from this template were highly infectious (>10(5) PFU/microg). The recovered virus was similar in plaque morphology, growth properties, polyprotein processing, and cytopathogenicity to the BVDV NADL parent. Deletion of cIns abolished processing at the NS2/NS3 site and produced a virus that was no longer cytopathic for MDBK cells. This deletion did not affect the efficiency of infectious virus production or viral protein production, but it reduced the level of virus-specific RNA synthesis and accumulation. Thus, cIns not only modulates NS3 production but also upregulates RNA replication relative to an isogenic noncytopathic derivative lacking the insert. These results raise the possibility of a linkage between enhanced BVDV NADL RNA replication and virus-induced cytopathogenicity.


pmid: 8264668
title: The nucleotide sequence of the 5'-untranslated region of bovine viral diarrhoea virus: its use as a probe in rapid detection of bovine viral diarrhoea viruses and border disease viruses
abstract: A 289 bp cDNA fragment from the 5'-untranslated region (UTR) of 16 bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) isolates was amplified by reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction, and sequenced by dideoxy DNA sequencing. The sequence showed greater than 90% homology between the isolates and BVDV NADL in this region, and greater than 97% homology within a 72 base sub-region (nt 314-386). The 289 bp fragment was then used as a probe for rapid detection of BVDV and border disease virus (BDV) from cell culture samples by dot-blot hybridization. This probe hybridized to 100% of BVDV isolates (n = 78) and 100% of BDV isolates (n = 9), but not to the uninfected BT cells or other bovine infectious agents. A shorter probe from the more conserved sub-region also was tested for hybridization with some of the isolates, and the results were similar to those using the longer probe. These results suggest that the 5'-UTR is highly conserved among BVDV and BDV isolates, and may be used as a potential probe for rapid detection of BVDV and BDV in clinical and cell culture samples from cattle and sheep.


pmid: 19655440
title: Amplification of bovine viral diarrhoea virus introduced into an in vitro embryo production system via oocytes from persistently infected cattle
abstract: The purpose of this study was to determine whether or not embryos derived from in vitro fertilization of oocytes from persistently infected (PI) cattle would contain infectious virus.Three in vitro embryo production treatment groups were assessed: 1) oocytes and uterine tubal cells (UTC) free of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) (negative control), 2)oocytes free of BVDV fertilized and cultured in media containing UTC obtained from PI heifers, and 3) oocytes from PI heifers fertilized and cultured in media containing UTC free of BVDV. The developmental media, UTC and embryos (individual or groups of five) were assayed for virus.Virus was not isolated from any samples in treatment group 1.As shown in previous studies, a proportion of embryo samples were positive for BVDV in treatment group 2. In treatment group 3, the virus associated with the oocytes contaminated the developmental media and infected susceptible co-culture cells used during fertilization and culture. In addition, 65% (11/17) of the degenerated ova from treatment group 3 had infectious virus associated with them. While none of the ova developed into transferable embryos, the study did confirm that use of oocytes from PI cows could lead to amplification of BVDV and cross contamination during in vitro embryo production.


pmid: 19609634
title: Activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase in MDBK cells infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Our efforts to identify the cellular signaling cascades triggered by bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in MDBK cells revealed marked activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK). Enhanced phosphorylation of ERK was detected following infection with cytopathogenic (cp) BVDV, but not with noncytopathogenic BVDV. It appears that cp BVDV-induced ERK phosphorylation is caused by oxidative stress, because ERK phosphorylation was inducible by treatment with hydrogen peroxide or serum deprivation and was attenuated by addition of antioxidants. These results indicate that BVDV infection influences the ERK signaling pathway via oxidative stress, depending on the biotype.


pmid: 8236677
title: Relationship between the levels of antibodies to bovine viral diarrhoea virus in bulk tank milk and the prevalence of cows exposed to the virus
abstract: A positive relationship was found between the prevalence of cows in a herd which were antibody-positive for bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and the level of antibodies to the virus in bulk tank milk as determined by an indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). In herds with an ELISA absorbance value of up to 0.20 there were very few or no antibody-positive cows, whereas in herds with an ELISA absorbance value of at least 0.81, 87 to 100 per cent of the lactating cows were antibody-positive to BVDV. An analysis of the level of antibodies to BVDV in milk samples from Sweden and Finland showed that of 123 Swedish herds, 83.7 per cent had detectable antibodies to BVDV in their bulk milk whereas only 3.1 per cent of the 291 Finnish samples were antibody-positive. The incidence of BVDV infection in 105 herds in one area of Sweden was determined by analysing two samples of bulk tank milk taken one year apart. The infection had apparently occurred recently in five of these dairy herds.


pmid: 29879634
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in wild boar
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) is one of the most economically important diseases of cattle. With its very high prevalence, cattle kept on pastures become a source of the virus for the wildlife which, due to their susceptibility, then easily can serve as a source for re-infections of cattle. Therefore, we investigated the BVDV infection in Serbian wild boar and assessed the role of wild boar in BVDV epidemiology including possible spreading to domestic species. This study was based on examination of 50 spleen samples which were collected from wild boars located in Eastern Serbia during the hunting season 2016/2017. BVDV genome was detected in 4 of 50 samples (8%). Phylogenetic analysis based on 5'UTR revealed that BVDV strains from wild boars shared 100% identity. Belonging to the BVDV 1f subgenotype, the most common in cattle, we showed that BVDV infections of wild boar occurred as a result of either direct or indirect contact with domestic animals. Therefore, the occurrence of infectious disease in wildlife emphasizes the need to study the pathogens shared by wildlife and domestic animals by investigating the incidence of pathogens and disease patterns of those populations.


pmid: 27976454
title: Zika virus: Future reproductive concerns
abstract: The pandemic spread of Zika virus (ZIKV), a member of the flavivirus genus of the Flaviviridae family, has become a major public health concern. Reproductive specialists are particularly concerned over the spread of ZIKV as it is now known to have both sexual and transplacental routes of transmission resulting in fetal congenital abnormalities. Other members of the Flaviviridae family, hepatitis C virus (HCV) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) (which primarily affects cattle), are well known to reproductive specialists as both sexually transmitted illnesses that are capable of vertical transmission. Congenital infection with BVDV also has a predilection for neuro-teratogenicity as has been seen with ZIKV. HCV and BVDV are also known to be capable of persistent infection in offspring. Could this be the case with ZIKV? Examining what we know about HCV and BVDV, in addition to what we have already learned about ZIKV, may answer some of the questions that remain about ZIKV. Herein, we review the current literature as it pertains to ZIKV vertical transmission and neuro-teratogenicity and compare it to what is known about HCV and BVDV.


pmid: 7853509
title: Pestivirus NS3 (p80) protein possesses RNA helicase activity
abstract: The pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) p80 protein (referred to here as the NS3 protein) contains amino acid sequence motifs predictive of three enzymatic activities: serine proteinase, nucleoside triphosphatase, and RNA helicase. We have previously demonstrated that the former two enzymatic activities are associated with this protein. Here, we show that a purified recombinant BVDV NS3 protein derived from baculovirus-infected insect cells possesses RNA helicase activity. BVDV NS3 RNA helicase activity was specifically inhibited by monoclonal antibodies to the p80 protein. The activity was dependent on the presence of nucleoside triphosphate and divalent cation, with a preference for ATP and Mn2+. Hydrolysis of the nucleoside triphosphate was necessary for strand displacement. The helicase activity required substrates with an un-base-paired region on the template strand 3' of the duplex region. As few as three un-base-paired nucleotides were sufficient for efficient oligonucleotide displacement. However, the enzyme did not act on substrates having a single-stranded region only to the 5' end of the duplex or on substrates lacking single-stranded regions altogether (blunt-ended duplex substrates), suggesting that the directionality of the BVDV RNA helicase was 3' to 5' with respect to the template strand. The BVDV helicase activity was able to displace both RNA and DNA oligonucleotides from RNA template strands but was unable to release oligonucleotides from DNA templates. The possible role of this activity in pestivirus replication is discussed.


pmid: 27400958
title: Resolving Bovine viral diarrhea virus subtypes from persistently infected U.S. beef calves with complete genome sequence
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is classified into 2 genotypes, BVDV-1 and BVDV-2, each of which contains distinct subtypes with genetic and antigenic variation. To effectively control BVDV by vaccination, it is important to know which subtypes of the virus are circulating and how their prevalence is changing over time. Accordingly, the purpose of our study was to estimate the current prevalence and diversity of BVDV subtypes from persistently infected (PI) beef calves in the central United States. Phylogenetic analysis of the 5'-UTR (5' untranslated region) for 119 virus strains revealed that a majority (82%) belonged to genotype 1b, and the remaining strains were distributed between genotypes 1a (9%) and 2 (8%); however, BVDV-2 subtypes could not be confidently resolved. Therefore, to better define the variability of U.S. BVDV isolates and further investigate the division of BVDV-2 isolates into subtypes, complete genome sequences were obtained for these isolates as well as representatives of BVDV-1a and -1b. Phylogenetic analyses of the complete coding sequence provided more conclusive genetic classification and revealed that U.S. BVDV-2 isolates belong to at least 3 distinct genetic groups that are statistically supported by both complete and individual coding gene analyses. These results show that a more complex set of BVDV-2 subtypes has been circulating in this region than was previously thought.


pmid: 26050574
title: HoBi-like viruses--the typical 'atypical bovine pestivirus'
abstract: HoBi-like viruses, also referred to as bovine viral diarrhea virus 3 (BVDV-3) and atypical pestivirus, have been proposed as a new putative bovine pestivirus species. These viruses were first identified in the last decade and are currently distributed in at least three continents. Published findings suggest that these viruses may be endemic at least in parts of South America and Asia. The clinical presentations in cattle, described in field outbreaks and controlled studies, are similar to those associated with BVDV and range from subclinical to mild clinical signs, sporadically associated with reproductive losses, respiratory illness and hemorrhagic syndrome. The complete host range of HoBi-like virus is unknown, but data suggest higher adaptation of HoBi-like viruses to ruminants than swine. Acute infections, characterized by mild clinical signs, such as low-grade pyrexia and leukopenia, have been observed in both cattle and sheep. Virus has been isolated from nasal swabs indicating that virus was being shed. While seroconversion has been observed in pigs, no clinical presentation or viral shedding was evident following inoculation. While some commercial BVDV diagnostic tests may detect HoBi-like viruses, these tests do not differentiate between BVDV and HoBi-like viruses. The differentiation of BVDV and HoBi-like viruses is critical to the design of surveillance programs for these viruses.


pmid: 18834622
title: Transmission of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) via in vitro-fertilized embryos to recipients, but not to their offspring
abstract: The objective was to assess the potential of Day-7, IVP zona pellucida-intact blastocysts to transmit bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) to embryo recipients. Embryos were exposed (1h) to two non-cytopathic (NCP) biotypes, either NY-1 (type 1) or two concentrations of PA-131 (type 2), washed 10 times, and transferred into recipients (two embryos/recipient) free of BVDV and its antibody. Six (30.0%) of the 20 pregnancies were lost after 30 d following transfer of the embryos exposed to the type 1 strain; none of the recipients or their 18 full term offspring seroconverted. Conversely, following exposure to the type 2 strain, 16 (51.6%) of the 31 pregnancies were lost >30 d after embryo transfer. Furthermore, 18 (51.4%) of 35 recipients receiving embryos exposed to type 2 seroconverted; 11 of those were pregnant at 30 d, but only 2 went to full term and gave birth to noninfected (seronegative) calves. Virus isolation tests were performed on single, virus-exposed, washed embryos (not transferred); 3 of 12 (25%) and 17 of 61 (28%) exposed to type 1 and type 2, respectively, were positive for live BVDV. Embryos exposed to type 2 virus had from 0 to 34 viral copies. In conclusion, a large proportion of recipients that received embryos exposed to BVDV, especially those exposed to a high concentration of type 2 virus, became infected after ET, and their pregnancies failed. However, term pregnancies resulted in calves free of both virus and antibody. Therefore, additional disinfection procedures are recommended prior to transferring potentially infected IVP embryos.


pmid: 8594858
title: Brain malformations in ovine fetuses associated with the cytopathogenic biotype of bovine viral-diarrhoea virus
abstract: A total of six ewes were intravenously inoculated at between 65 and 68 days of gestation with the Indiana strain of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), containing both non-cytopathogenic (ncp) and cytopathogenic (cp) biotypes. Eight transplacentally infected fetuses were sequentially removed from the infected ewes and were found to have inflammatory lesions and malformations of the brain. BVDV RNA was isolated from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded brain tissue sections and detected by nested polymerase chain reaction after reverse transcription. The two biotypes of BVDV were distinguished by the fact that a sequence insertion in the RNA of the cp biotype of the inoculum results in larger amplicons. Only RNA from cp BVDV was detected in three of the brains removed up to 14 days post-inoculation (p.i.), and no BVDV RNA was detected after more than 14 days p.i. These findings suggest that, in critical phases of development, cp BVDV may transplacentally infect the ovine fetal brain and cause malformations.


pmid: 7502482
title: Effect of BVD virus infection on alveolar macrophage functions
abstract: Alveolar macrophages (AM) were recovered by bronchoalveolar lavage from a group of eight calves at various times before and after inoculation with a cytopathic respiratory isolate of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). A second group of four calves were given tissue culture medium as a control inoculum. Macrophages were also recovered from two additional, uninoculated calves, and were exposed to BVDV in vitro. Tests were carried out on the recovered macrophages to determine the effects of the virus on several functional properties. Immunofluorescence did not indicate the AM as being readily susceptible to this isolate of BVDV, although infection did occur. Fc receptor (FcR) and complement receptor (C3R) expression, phagocytosis and microbicidal activity and the production of neutrophil chemotactic factors were all significantly reduced in macrophages recovered from BVDV infected calves, compared with pre-inoculation control levels, whereas the control inoculated calves displayed significant increases in some of the functions. With macrophages exposed to the virus in vitro however, only FcR and C3R expression and phagocytic activity were significantly reduced. The results demonstrate that BVDV can reduce local immune defences in the lung, following infection by the respiratory route, and in conjunction with the other immunosuppressive properties of BVDV would favour a pre-disposing role for the virus in the pathogenesis of respiratory disease in calves.


pmid: 32633084
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus: An updated American College of Veterinary Internal Medicine consensus statement with focus on virus biology, hosts, immunosuppression, and vaccination
abstract: Control of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in cattle populations across most of the world has remained elusive in spite of advances in knowledge about this viral pathogen. A central feature of virus perseverance in cattle herds is the unique mechanism of persistent infection. Managing BVDV infection in herds involves controlling persistently infected carrier animals using a multidimensional approach of vaccination, biosecurity, and identification of BVDV reservoirs. A decade has passed since the original American College of Veterinary Internal Medicine consensus statement on BVDV. While much has remained the same with respect to clinical signs of disease, pathogenesis of infection including persistent infection, and diagnosis, scientific articles published since 2010 have led to a greater understanding of difficulties associated with control of BVDV. This consensus statement update on BVDV presents greater focus on topics currently relevant to the biology and control of this viral pathogen of cattle, including changes in virus subpopulations, infection in heterologous hosts, immunosuppression, and vaccination.


pmid: 25273964
title: Phylogenetic study on the 5'-untranslated region of bovine viral diarrhoea virus isolates from Iran
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus is a pathogen of bovids associated with reproduction system, causing in infected animals a range of ailments, from abortion to congenital defects. In this article, the nucleotide structure of the 5'-untranslated region (5-UTR) from 7 Iranian bovine diarrhoea virus (BVDV) isolates was characterized and subjected to comparative analysis against a panel of BVDV isolates from different sources. To this end, a 288 bp-long stretch of the internal ribosome entry site was amplified by RT-PCR. The PCR products subsequently cloned into PTZ57T vector and sequenced using T7 promoter primers. This resulted in detection of 3 new point mutations G → A and G → T in 2 isolates. When these findings were phylogenetically assessed, all the examined Iranian isolates were deemed to belong to the type1 of BVDV. Besides, 2 subtypes were identified among these isolates. In group A, a high level of similarity (99.2%) between Iranian isolates with a cytopathic Australian strain of BVDV-1c was detected; while in group B, the 4 Iranian isolates proved to be very similar to NADL-like BVDV-1a strains. We believe that the surprisingly high level of similarity between group A Iranian isolates and their corresponding Australian strain is likely to be an indication of a shared common ancestor. If correct, the most likely explanation of this observation is the introduction of such strains from Australia to Iran, possibly through exportation of infected live animals or animal productions (e.g. semen and meat) at some points in the past. Nevertheless, this hypothesis remains to be proved as further epidemiological work at genomic level is required to understand population of BVDV in Iran.


pmid: 12441235
title: Bulk milk testing for antibody seroprevalences to BVDV and BHV-1 in a rural region of Peru
abstract: Bulk milk from 60 herds of dairy cattle in a rural region in the central highlands of Peru was tested for antibodies to bovine viral-diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BHV-1). None of the herds had been vaccinated against BVDV or BHV-1. Commercially available indirect ELISA-kits were used for antibody detection. True prevalences of BVDV and BHV-1 antibody-positive herds were 96 and 51%, respectively. A relatively low proportion of strongly positive herds suggests, however, a low prevalence of active BVDV infection. BVDV optical densities (ODs) in bulk milk increased with herd size--indicating a higher within-herd prevalence in the larger herds (probably, in part a consequence of a higher rate of animal movement into these herds). For BHV-1, this pattern was not found; a relatively high proportion of the herds was free from BHV-1 infection in each size category. This could indicate a low rate of reactivation of latent BHV-1 infection.


pmid: 8888525
title: Epidemiologic association between antibody titres against bovine virus diarrhoea virus, rinderpest disease virus and infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus in a buffalo herd
abstract: The association between antibody titres against bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV), infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBRV) and rinderpest disease virus (RPDV) in buffaloes was investigated in a cross-sectional study. Thirty-six lactating buffaloes from a herd in Landhi Cattle Colony, Karachi were bled and serum samples subjected to a micro-neutralisation test at the Plum Island Animal Disease Center, USA, to categorise each buffalo either as positive or negative against each of 3 viral antigens. Log-linear analysis was used to evaluate the association among 3 categorical variables. The "best-fitting" log-linear model was the model of complete independence. This model includes all 3 main effects (BVDV, IBRV, RPDV), suggesting that the seropositivity of buffaloes against these viral antigens tended to occur independently. Estimates of parameters of the model showed that the proportion of buffaloes seropositive (97.2%) to RPDV antigen tended to be higher than expected, whereas the proportion of BVDV seropositive (30.6%) and IBRV seropositive (16.7%) buffaloes tended to be smaller than expected.


pmid: 16555484
title: [Seroprevalence of antibodies to ruminant pestiviruses in sheep and goats in Tyrol (Austria)]
abstract: In this study 2058 blood samples from sheep of 150 flocks from the province of Tyrol were tested by ELISA and serum neutralisation tests for antibodies to ruminant pestiviruses. In the ELISA, positive results were obtained with 34.9% of individual sheep sera and in 89.3% of the sheep flocks. The prevalence in sheep and sheep flocks varied according to areas. Seroprevalence of pestiviruses was significantly (p < 0.05) higher in small ruminants pastured during summertime on the Alps. Comparative neutralisation studies were carried out on all positive blood samples with BVDV-1, BVDV-2 and BDV. 443 seropositive sheep samples exhibited clearly the highest titre against one of the pestivirus strains tested. 413 revealed the highest titres (2 or more fold) to BVDV-1, 6 to BVDV-2 and 24 to BDV. In some areas a very high rate of pestivirus seroprevalence could be found. This fact could be harmful to the BVDV-Elimination and Controlling Program in cattle in Austria.


pmid: 2848299
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus infections in piglets born to sows vaccinated against swine fever with contaminated vaccine
abstract: On eight farms a congenital pestivirus infection in piglets was detected which could be traced to vaccination of the dams against swine fever (SF). Viruses isolated from the piglets were not recognised by monoclonal antibodies (MCAs) against swine fever virus (SFV) and were shown to be bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) or Border disease virus. The expected 'Chinese' strain of SFV could not be demonstrated in the batch of vaccine that had been used on these farms. Instead, a contaminating pestivirus was recovered which was not recognised by the MCAs against SFV. The contaminant had an unexpectedly high virulence for lambs and induced antibodies against BVDV in lambs and pigs. It could, therefore, be characterised as BVDV or Border disease virus.


pmid: 24500065
title: Physical interaction between bovine viral diarrhea virus nonstructural protein 4A and adenosine deaminase acting on RNA (ADAR)
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a positive-sense RNA virus known to produce double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) during its replication in the cytoplasm. Extended dsRNA duplexes can be hyperedited by adenosine deaminase acting on RNA (ADAR), which catalyzes adenosine (A)-to-inosine (I) editing. A-to-I editing has been reported for various viruses. A number of cellular antiviral defense strategies are stimulated by dsRNA, and this may involve hyperediting of dsRNA by ADARs, followed by targeted cleavage by cytoplasmic endonucleases. Here, we identify ADAR as a binding partner of BVDV NS4A in vitro and in vivo and show that the N-terminal domain of NS4A is the ADAR-binding domain. We also show that ADAR has an inhibitory effect on BVDV replication when overexpressed in BVDV-infected bovine cells. Our findings suggest a role of NS4A in the interaction of BVDV with ADAR that favors virus replication.


pmid: 19665482
title: Development and validation of an ELISA for quantitation of bovine viral diarrhea virus antigen in the critical stages of vaccine production
abstract: Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) is the causative agent of a worldwide disease. The virus infects bovines of all ages, causing reproductive problems and contaminating biological products of high commercial value. The large-scale production of BVDV vaccines presents the challenge of processing antigenic proteins that are highly susceptible to the processing environment. Potency testing requires the immunization of cattle in order to determine the neutralizing antibodies titers induced by the vaccine. An alternative to the in vivo test is an in vitro measurement of key viral antigens. This paper describes the development and validation of a sandwich-type indirect ELISA that is able to detect and quantify BVDV E2 glycoprotein in live and inactivated BVDV. Validation parameters such as repeatability, intermediate precision, and reproducibility indicated that the developed ELISA constitutes an advanced tool for evaluating the BVDV antigen throughout manufacturing and vaccine release testing.


pmid: 16254361
title: Noncytopathogenic pestivirus strains generated by nonhomologous RNA recombination: alterations in the NS4A/NS4B coding region
abstract: Several studies have demonstrated that cytopathogenic (cp) pestivirus strains evolve from noncytopathogenic (noncp) viruses by nonhomologous RNA recombination. In addition, two recent reports showed the rapid emergence of noncp Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) after a few cell culture passages of cp BVDV strains by homologous recombination between identical duplicated viral sequences. To allow the identification of recombination sites from noncp BVDV strains that evolve from cp viruses, we constructed the cp BVDV strains CP442 and CP552. Both harbor duplicated viral sequences of different origin flanking the cellular insertion Nedd8*; the latter is a prerequisite for their cytopathogenicity. In contrast to the previous studies, isolation of noncp strains was possible only after extensive cell culture passages of CP442 and CP552. Sequence analysis of 15 isolated noncp BVDVs confirmed that all recombinant strains lack at least most of Nedd8*. Interestingly, only one strain resulted from homologous recombination while the other 14 strains were generated by nonhomologous recombination. Accordingly, our data suggest that the extent of sequence identity between participating sequences influences both frequency and mode (homologous versus nonhomologous) of RNA recombination in pestiviruses. Further analyses of the noncp recombinant strains revealed that a duplication of 14 codons in the BVDV nonstructural protein 4B (NS4B) gene does not interfere with efficient viral replication. Moreover, an insertion of viral sequences between the NS4A and NS4B genes was well tolerated. These findings thus led to the identification of two genomic loci which appear to be suited for the insertion of heterologous sequences into the genomes of pestiviruses and related viruses.


pmid: 16169620
title: Implementation of two-step vaccination in the control of bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD)
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) control/eradication programmes based on the test and removal of persistently infected cattle without use of vaccination were first introduced by the Scandinavian countries in the early 1990s. Within the last 10 years the programmes have proven to be very successful and have served as a blueprint for several other European regions. However, in areas with high cattle densities, intense animal trade and high BVD prevalence this control approach is risky, because there is a high probability that herds, which have been cleared of persistently infected (PI) animals and have become partly or fully susceptible to reintroduction of the virus, will come in contact with a BVD virus (BVDV) infected animal. A combination of the test and removal strategy with subsequent systematic vaccination of cattle could overcome this problem. The goals of vaccination in such a programme is protection against reintroduction of BVDV into herds free from PI cattle and foetal protection of pregnant animals accidentally exposed to the virus. Two-step vaccination is based on the use of inactivated BVDV-1 vaccine for priming followed by a live attenuated vaccine booster 4 weeks later. The immune response elicited by such a vaccination scheme has proven to be long lasting and foetal infection after challenge with BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 was prevented in pregnant animals 5 months after vaccination. These findings suggest that the implementation of a two-step vaccination in the initial phase of control programmes in addition to test and removal of PI animals in areas with high cattle densities and endemic BVD is practical and efficacious.


pmid: 11285638
title: [Detection of bovine virus diarrhea virus in a live bovine herpes virus 1 marker vaccine]
abstract: In February 1999, 12 Dutch herds were vaccinated with a live bovine herpesvirus 1 vaccine from which bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV) could be isolated. All vaccine batches that were on the Dutch market and that had not yet reached the expiry date were tested for BVDV. In total, seven of 82 batches tested were found positive. Batch numbers TX3607, VB3914, VB3915, VB4046, TW3391, and TV3294 were positive for BVDV type 1, and batch number WG4622 was positive for BVDV type 2. This latter batch induced clinical signs of BVDV in an animal experiment with susceptible animals.


pmid: 8581855
title: Molecular biology of bovine viral diarrhea virus and its interactions with the host
abstract: The contributions of pestivirus molecular biology research to our understanding of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) biology and disease have been remarkable. Completion of nucleotide sequence information for genomes of NCP and CP-BVDV isolates was an important milestone. Subsequent work on the protein map of BVDV and polyprotein processing pathways paved the way for the interpretation of many other virologic and immunologic studies. Discovery of a correlation between genotype II and virulence (hemorrhagic syndrome) will help to clarify previously controversial data and to improve disease control. Description of multiple pathways of p80 expression in CP-BVDV offered insight into the pathogenesis of mucosal disease. Identification of gp53/ E2 as the target of neutralizing antibodies and source of antigenic hypervariability helped us to understand immunity to BVDV. Collectively, the advances described contribute to the implementation of improved diagnostic and control strategies to reduce losses inflicted by the bovine pestivirus.


pmid: 24500065
title: Physical interaction between bovine viral diarrhea virus nonstructural protein 4A and adenosine deaminase acting on RNA (ADAR)
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a positive-sense RNA virus known to produce double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) during its replication in the cytoplasm. Extended dsRNA duplexes can be hyperedited by adenosine deaminase acting on RNA (ADAR), which catalyzes adenosine (A)-to-inosine (I) editing. A-to-I editing has been reported for various viruses. A number of cellular antiviral defense strategies are stimulated by dsRNA, and this may involve hyperediting of dsRNA by ADARs, followed by targeted cleavage by cytoplasmic endonucleases. Here, we identify ADAR as a binding partner of BVDV NS4A in vitro and in vivo and show that the N-terminal domain of NS4A is the ADAR-binding domain. We also show that ADAR has an inhibitory effect on BVDV replication when overexpressed in BVDV-infected bovine cells. Our findings suggest a role of NS4A in the interaction of BVDV with ADAR that favors virus replication.


pmid: 22947692
title: A reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification method for rapid detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: A reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP) assay was developed and optimized to detect bovine viral diarrhea viral (BVDV) RNA. The RT-LAMP assay is highly sensitive and able to detect 4.67×10(0)copies of BVDV RNA. Additionally, the RT-LAMP method is capable of detecting both genotypes of BVDV. No cross-reaction with other bovine viruses was observed. The ability of RT-LAMP to detect BVDV RNA from bovine fecal swabs was also evaluated. Of the 88 fecal swabs, 38 were found to be positive by RT-LAMP assay, whereas 39 were positive by real-time RT-PCR. Taken together, the BVDV specific RT-LAMP method is highly specific and sensitive and can be used as a rapid and direct diagnostic assay for testing clinical samples.


pmid: 11482608
title: Evaluation of a new sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus in unprocessed fetal bovine serum
abstract: A new sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (S-ELISA) kit that uses raw (unprocessed) fetal bovine serum (FBS) as the testing sample was evaluated for upstream bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) testing. Pooled FBS samples (n = 84) were tested using the S-ELISA. Thirty serum samples originating from persistently infected (PI) calves that had been confirmed by virus isolation (VI) as BVDV positive and another 30 samples previously confirmed by VI as BVDV negative were also evaluated. Of the 84 field samples, the S-ELISA detected 13 (15.5%) BVDV-positive specimens. When these 13 positive samples were tested by VI and immunofluorescent assay, 11 (84.6%) were positive and 2 (15.4%) were negative. The S-ELISA was positive for all 30 PI samples (100%) and negative for all 30 negative samples (100%). These data indicate that the new kit is a relatively reliable diagnostic tool and can be considered for upstream detection of BVDV-contaminated raw FBS pools.


pmid: 8537459
title: Rapid and sensitive detection of the bovine viral diarrhea virus genome in semen
abstract: A reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) procedure was developed for the detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in cell culture supernatant and in bovine semen. Several sets of primers, PCR conditions and extraction methods were examined to optimize the procedure. A set of primers designed to amplify a highly conserved portion of the p80 gene from BVDV (corresponding to NADL strain sequence from bp 6668 to 7107), was demonstrated to be the most effective. These oligonucleotide primers consistently amplify a 440-bp fragment from several non-cytopathic and cytopathic biotypes of BVDV. The viral origin of the PCR products was assessed by sequencing. The introduction of a Sephacryl S-400 chromatography step to remove seminal inhibitors prior to RNA extraction permitted RT-PCR detection of BVDV in raw and extended semen samples. A maximum sensitivity of 0.4 TCID50 was achieved with this method using RNA extracted from tissue supernatants. This RT-PCR assay may be a useful tool for the detection of BVDV in semen of persistently infected bulls.


pmid: 34742739
title: 75 years of bovine viral diarrhea virus: Current status and future applications of the use of directed antivirals
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was first reported 75 years ago and remains a source of major financial and production losses in the North American cattle industry. Currently, control methods in North America primarily center around biosecurity and vaccination programs; however, despite high levels of vaccination, the virus persists in the cattle herd due at least in part to the often-insidious nature of disease and the constant viremia and viral shedding of persistently infected animals which act as a reservoir for the virus. Continued development of targeted antivirals represents an additional tool for the prevention of BVDV-associated losses. Currently, in vivo studies of BVDV antivirals are relatively limited and have primarily been directed at the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase which represents the viral target with the highest potential for commercial development. Additional live animal studies have explored the potential of exogenous interferon treatment. Future research of commercial antivirals must focus on the establishment and validation of in vivo efficacy for compounds with demonstrated antiviral potential. The areas which provide the most viable economic justification for the research and development of antivirals drugs are the fed cattle sector, outbreak control, and wildlife or animals of high genetic value. With further development, targeted antivirals represent an additional tool for the management and control of BVDV in North American cattle herds.


pmid: 19473788
title: Epidemiology of prolonged testicular infections with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Previously, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) had been found in prolonged testicular infections following acute infection of immunocompetent bulls. The primary purpose of this research was to evaluate the production and maintenance of prolonged testicular infections after exposure to BVDV of seronegative bulls in varying circumstances. The secondary objective was to initiate assessment of the potential for transmission of BVDV via semen of bulls exhibiting a prolonged testicular infection. In total, 10 research trials were conducted. The first trial examined the duration of detectable virus in semen after intranasal inoculation of peri-pubertal bulls. The second to fifth trials examined the potential for prolonged testicular infections resulting from natural exposure of seronegative bulls to persistently infected heifers. In the last five trials, the potential for viral transmission from bulls exhibiting prolonged testicular infections to a small number of exposed animals (n=28) was evaluated. Results of this research demonstrated that prolonged testicular infections could result in detection of viral RNA in semen for 2.75 years with infectious virus grown from testicular tissue 12.5 months after viral exposure. A type 1b strain of BVDV caused prolonged testicular infection after natural exposure of seronegative bulls to a persistently infected heifer. However, transmission of BVDV to susceptible animals was not detected in the final five trials of this research. In conclusion, BVDV can persist in testicular tissue after acute infection for several years, but the potential for viral transmission from these prolonged testicular infections appears to be low.


pmid: 14599779
title: No caspase activation but overexpression of Bcl-2 in bovine cells infected with noncytopathic bovine virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: Cytopathic bovine viral diarrhoea viruses (cp BVDV) induce apoptosis in permissible cell cultures via the intrinsic pathway, which involves the mitochondria as key organelles. An important event is the irreversible opening of the permeability transition pore (PTP) and the breakdown of the transmembrane potential DeltaPsi(m). The resulting release of cytochrome C from the mitochondria serves as a trigger to form the apoptosome which then leads to caspase activation and cell death. In contrast, noncytopathic (ncp) BVDV do not seem to affect cells in vivo or in vitro, suggesting that they inhibit apoptosis. Interestingly, inhibition of caspases in cells infected with cp BVDV delayed the apoptotic cascade but did not prevent the cytopathic effect (CPE). This suggests that the induction of apoptosis and the processes finally leading to the CPE may proceed separately, implying that the inhibition of apoptosis by ncp BVDV has to start earlier in the cascade. In this study we show that in fact apoptosis inhibition in cells infected with ncp BVDV must occur at the mitochondrial level, before the activation of the caspase cascade occurs. To elucidate the role of mitochondria after infection of cells with ncp BVDV, expression of Bcl-2 and Bax were analysed. It was shown that while Bax expression was not affected, the anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein was upregulated, presumably suppressing initiation of cell death and enabling persistent infection in vitro.


pmid: 10630791
title: Alteration of leukocyte populations in calves concurrently infected with bovine respiratory syncytial virus and bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection altered leukocyte populations in calves that were reflected by depression of T, BoCD4+, and BoCD8+ lymphocytes in the thymus and depression of B lymphocytes in Peyer's patches (PP). The present study was based on mononuclear leukocyte preparations from eighteen 9- to 12-month-old crossbred calves that were each exposed to either bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), BVDV, or BRSV and BVDV concurrently, or served as mock-infected controls. Peripheral blood leukocytes were collected on postinfection days (PID) 0, 2, 4, 6, and 8, and cell populations from thymus, spleen, mesenteric lymph node, and PP were collected at necropsy on PID 9. The leukocytes were analyzed using flow cytometry for lymphocyte subpopulations expressing antigens specific for BoCD2, BoCD4, BoCD8, BoWC1, lambda light chain of bovine immunoglobulin, BoCD11b and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II. Concurrent BRSV and BVDV infections caused exaggerated alterations in leukocyte populations with a greater percentage of T-lymphocytes harvested from the PP. Alterations in the leukocyte populations in lymphatic tissues and in peripheral circulation due to BVDV infection may be an important mechanism for causation of clinically severe diseases of the respiratory and digestive tracts during concurrent BRSV and BVDV infections.


pmid: 31714135
title: First-time detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus, BVDV-1, in cattle in Botswana
abstract: Infectious diseases are serious constraints for improving livestock productivity. Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is a virus causing grave economic losses throughout the cattle producing world. Infection is often not apparent, but the virus can also cause respiratory signs, diarrhoea, reproductive problems and immunosuppression. Risk factors for disease transmission include, but are not limited to, herd size, animal trade and grazing on communal pastures. Several prevalence studies have been conducted in southern Africa, but in Botswana the occurrence is largely unknown. In this study, blood samples were obtained from 100 goats from three villages around the capital city, Gaborone. Also, 364 blood samples from cattle around Gaborone, collected as part of another study, were analysed. The detected antibody prevalence was 0% in goats and 53.6% in cattle when using a competitive enzyme-linked immunoassay. Three animals from two different herds were positive for viral nucleic acids on polymerase chain reaction. The two herds with viraemic animals had significantly higher antibody prevalence compared to the other herds. Also, two of the detected viruses were sequenced and found to be most similar to BVDV-1a. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first time that sequencing has been performed on BVDV isolated in Botswana.


pmid: 11665882
title: Validation of a reverse transcription nested polymerase chain reaction (RT-nPCR) to detect bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) associated with in vitro-derived bovine embryos and co-cultured cells
abstract: Sensitive RT-nPCR assays can be used for the rapid detection of viruses. The objective of this research was to validate an RT-nPCR assay for detection of BVDV associated with various samples collected from an IVF system. In 12 research replicates, we maintained matured COCs as negative controls or exposed them to 1 of 4 noncytopathic strains (SD-1, NY-1, CD-87, or PA-131) of BVDV for 1 h immediately before IVF. After 4 d of IVC, we harvested groups of 5 nonfertile ova or degenerated embryos (NFD) and some associated cumulus cells and transferred developing embryos and the remaining cumulus cells into secondary IVC drops. On the seventh d of IVC, cumulus cells, groups of 5 washed NFD and groups of 5 developed, washed embryos were harvested. We also collected single developed embryos after washing, washing with trypsin, washing and cryopreservation in ethylene glycol, or washing with trypsin and cryopreservation in ethylene glycol. All washes were performed according to International Embryo Transfer Society standards. Developed embryos and NFD were sonicated prior to assay. All samples were assayed for BVDV using virus isolation and RT-nPCR. The virus isolation and RT-nPCR assays determined that all negative control samples were BVDV-free. Virus was detected in association with all exposed cumulus cells and groups of developed embryos using both virus isolation and RT-nPCR. Results from viral assays of other exposed samples indicate enhanced sensitivity of the RT-nPCR assay. The RT-nPCR assay used in this research exhibited acceptable sensitivity, specificity, predictive value and repeatability for rapid detection of BVDV associated with the various samples obtained from an IVF system.


pmid: 16598681
title: Protection against fetal infection with either bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 or type 2 using a noncytopathic type 1 modified-live virus vaccine
abstract: Two bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) fetal protection studies were done using a monovalent noncytopathic (NCP) BVDV vaccine containing type 1 BVDV. In study 1, thirty-two fetuses (23 vaccinates and nine controls) were recovered following fetal challenge with the type 1a BJ strain. Twenty of twenty-three fetuses from the vaccinates were negative for BVDV type 1 while all of the controls (nine of nine) were infected. In study 2, twenty-two animals (14 vaccinates and eight controls) were challenged with the type 2 PA131 strain. Thirteen of the fourteen fetuses from the vaccinates were negative for BVDV type 2 while all of the nonvaccinated controls (eight of eight) were infected. These results indicate the efficacy of a monovalent NCP BVDV vaccine in providing excellent protection against either BVDV type 1 or 2 fetal infection.


pmid: 11337042
title: Genomic characterization of pestiviruses isolated from lambs and kids in southern Italy
abstract: A nested polymerase chain reaction was used to identify 13 pestivirus strains isolated from small ruminants in several mixed (sheep and goats) flocks of Southern Italy, and for classification as bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) type 1, BVDV type 2, and Border disease virus (BDV) genotypes. Of the nine ovine isolates, two were characterized as BVDV type 1, and seven as BVDV type 2. The four pestiviruses isolated from kids belong to BVDV type 1. None of the pestivirus strains tested could be classified as 'true' BDV (genotype 3). Although BVDV type 2 has been described in Europe rarely, the characterization of BD/90-1M strain as BVDV type 2, isolated in Italy in 1990, demonstrates that this genotype has been circulating in Italy since the 1990s.


pmid: 25234643
title: Lentivirus-mediated Bos taurus bta-miR-29b overexpression interferes with bovine viral diarrhoea virus replication and viral infection-related autophagy by directly targeting ATG14 and ATG9A in Madin-Darby bovine kidney cells
abstract: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of short endogenous RNA molecules with the ability to control development, autophagy, apoptosis and the stress response in eukaryotes by pairing with partially complementary sites in the 3' UTRs of targeted genes. Recent studies have demonstrated that miRNAs serve as critical effectors in intricate networks of host-pathogen interactions. Notably, we found that Bos taurus bta-miR-29b (referred to as miR-29b herein) was significantly upregulated >2.3-fold in bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) strain NADL-infected Madin-Darby bovine kidney (MDBK) cells 6 h post-infection compared with normal MDBK cells. However, the roles of miR-29b in BVDV infection and pathogenesis remain unclear. Here, we report the inhibitory effects of miR-29b on BVDV NADL replication and viral infection-related autophagy. miR-29b overexpression mediated by miRNA precursor-expressing lentivirus resulted in the attenuation of BVDV NADL infection-related autophagy by directly downregulating the intracellular expression levels of two key autophagy-associated proteins, ATG14 and ATG9A. Moreover, ATG14 and ATG9A overexpression rescue not only reversed miR-29b-inhibited autophagy, but also increased BVDV NADL replication. In previous studies, we found that the early stages of autophagy contributed to BVDV NADL replication in MDBK cells and that the inhibition of autophagy repressed BVDV NADL replication, which was also proved in the present study. Collectively, our results establish a novel link between miR-29b and viral replication, and also provide a new pathway for the intimate interaction between host cells and pathogens.


pmid: 22824254
title: Transient elimination of circulating bovine viral diarrhoea virus by colostral antibodies in persistently infected calves: a pitfall for BVDV-eradication programs?
abstract: Infections with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) cause substantial economic losses to cattle industries. Rapid detection of persistently BVDV infected (PI) calves is of utmost importance for the efficacy of BVDV control programs. Blood and ear skin biopsy samples are conveniently used for early mass screening of newborns. However, little is known about the impact of colostral antibodies on the outcome of relevant analyses. Here, we rigorously tested a series of samples obtained from five colostrum-fed PI calves from birth until they reached the status of seronegativity for NS3-specific antibodies. We comparatively quantified virus loads in blood samples and dried skin biopsies as detected with BVDV-NS3-, -Erns-capture ELISA and RT-qPCR. Monitoring of NS3-positive leukocytes was done with flow cytometry. Within seven days after colostrum intake, BVDV infected leukocytes disappeared for a three- to eight-week period. Immediately after colostrum ingestion, detectable Erns antigen levels dropped 10-100-fold in biopsy samples and in sera detection of Erns failed for one to two weeks. Virus demonstration in biopsy samples with a NS3-antigen-ELISA failed until days 90-158 after birth. Specific antibodies against BVDV also impaired the detection of viral RNA in leukocytes and blood. Mean RNA levels of the five calves were reduced in sera 2.500-fold and in leukocytes 400-fold, the lowest values were at week three of live. In contrast, levels of measurable viral RNA in biopsy samples remained constant during the observation period.


pmid: 21430053
title: Inhibition of bovine viral diarrhea virus RNA synthesis by thiosemicarbazone derived from 5,6-dimethoxy-1-indanone
abstract: In the present work, we described the activity of the thiosemicarbazone derived from 5,6-dimethoxy-1-indanone (TSC), which we previously characterized as a new compound that inhibits bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection. We showed that TSC acts at a point of time that coincides with the onset of viral RNA synthesis and that it inhibits the activity of BVDV replication complexes (RCs). Moreover, we have selected five BVDV mutants that turned out to be highly resistant to TSC but still susceptible to ribavirin (RBV). Four of these resistant mutants carried an N264D mutation in the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp). The remaining mutant showed an A392E mutation within the same protein. Some of these mutants replicated slower than the wild-type (wt) virus in the absence of TSC, whereas others showed a partial reversion to the wt phenotype over several passages in the absence of the compound. The docking of TSC in the crystal structure of the BVDV RdRp revealed a close contact between the indane ring of the compound and several residues within the fingers domain of the enzyme, some hydrophobic contacts, and hydrogen bonds with the thiosemicarbazone group. Finally, in the mutated RdRp from resistant BVDV, these interactions with TSC could not be achieved. Interestingly, TSC inhibited BVDV replication in cell culture synergistically with RBV. In conclusion, TSC emerges as a new nonnucleoside inhibitor of BVDV RdRp that is synergistic with RBV, a feature that turns it into a potential compound to be evaluated against hepatitis C virus (HCV).


pmid: 20622220
title: Characterization and phylogenetic analysis of Bovine viral diarrhea virus in brain tissues from nonambulatory (downer) cattle in Korea
abstract: Between August 2008 and May 2009, 386 brain and serum samples from adult cattle (2-7 years old) showing a variety of clinical signs of downer cow syndrome were received by the National Veterinary Research and Quarantine Service. All brain samples were tested for the presence of Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), immunohistochemistry (IHC), and antigen capture ELISA (Ag-ELISA). The BVDV nucleic acid was detected in 54 of 386 (15.5%) brain samples tested by RT-PCR. Positive results were detected in 14 (3.67%) and 13 (3.4%) of samples tested by IHC and Ag-ELISA, respectively. Both BVDV nucleic acid and antigen were detected in 11 cattle (2.9%) by all 3 diagnostic tests; however, antibodies against BVDV were not detected in these 11 cattle. A molecular classification of the identified viral strains (n = 40) was also carried out. Neighbor-joining phylogenetic analysis revealed that most of the identified viruses belonged to BVDV genotype 1a (n = 10), 1b (n = 16), and 2a (n = 8). The remaining strains were subtypes 1c (n = 1), 1n (n = 4), and 1m (n = 1). Interestingly, most of the BVDV-1b strains (n = 9) identified in brain samples were confirmed by all 3 diagnostic tests. Further studies should be performed to determine why the BVDV-1b strain was found in brain samples that were positive using all 3 diagnostic tests.


pmid: 30877664
title: Genetic identification of pestiviruses from beef cattle in Southern Brazil
abstract: Bovine pestiviruses, e.g., bovine viral diarrhea virus types 1 (BVDV-1 or Pestivirus A), BVDV-2 (Pestivirus B), and HoBi-like pestiviruses (HoBiPeV or Pestivirus H), have been shown to circulate in Brazilian cattle in varied proportions. In this study, we identified genetically pestiviruses circulating in beef cattle in Rio Grande do Sul, the southern most Brazilian state. Screening of serum of 15.584 beef calves destined to be export by an antigen capture ELISA and, subsequently, by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), revealed 135 containing pestivirus RNA. Genetic typing of these viruses based on nucleotide sequencing and phylogenetic analysis of the 5' untranslated region (5' UTR) of the viral genome allowed for the identification of 90 different viruses, being 38 BVDV-1 (42.2%), 31 BVDV-2 (34.4%), and 21 HoBiPeV (23.4%). Among BVDV-1, only subtypes BVDV-1a (n = 28, 31.1%) and BVDV-1b (n = 10, 11.1%) were identified. All 31 BVDV-2 isolates belonged to BVDV-2b subtype and the 21 HoBiPeV viruses clustered to subgroup 3a. Thus, this study provides an approximate genetic profile of pestiviruses circulating in beef cattle in a traditional Brazilian beef cattle-raising state.


pmid: 8581867
title: Control of bovine viral diarrhea virus infection without vaccines
abstract: Successful control and eradication of BVDV infection presuppose sufficient knowledge of its epidemiology, particularly sources of infection and ways of transmission. Furthermore, it is crucial to have tests that can be trusted to give the true infection of individual animals and indicate the infection status of herds. PI animals are considered to be the main source of infection. In preliminary experiments in Denmark, it was found that eradication in herds could be based on the identification and removal of PI animals. Actual and possible means of herd-to-herd transmission of importance for infection control are reviewed. Special attention is paid to the possibility of airborne transmission, which must be anticipated in areas with high BVDV prevalence and a high cattle population density. BVDV control programs have been initiated only in the Scandinavian countries including Finland, where the occurrence of BVDV varies from a very low prevalence in Finland to a very high prevalence in Denmark. The BVDV programs in Finland, Norway, and Sweden are basically the same. The primary aim of each is the identification of the herds free from infection and prevention of introduction of the infection to these herds. A secondary aim is to reduce gradually the number of infected herds. In Denmark, which has a high prevalence of BVDV, the program is a combined control and eradication program, and different tests are used. The control programs in Scandinavian countries and the eradication program in Denmark are described together with the tests involved. With respect to control, special emphasis is given to herd tests applied to bulk tank milk or to specially selected blood samples to indicate the infection status of individual herds. The initial bulk tank milk testings were the main basis for the conclusions that in Finland, Norway, and Denmark approximately 1%, 9%, and 39% of the dairy herds, respectively, seemed to have PI animals. With respect to eradication, an ELISA developed in Denmark for demonstration of virus in blood has proved to be extremely reliable for identification of PI animals. The BVDV programs are generally voluntary, although in Norway, where BVD is a notifiable disease, restrictions have been placed on infected herds to prevent a further spread of the infection. The annual losses in Denmark from BVDV have been calculated to be approximately 100 million DKr (17 million dollars), whereas the total costs of the control and eradication program for a 3-year period including testing of trade animals are estimated to be approximately 160 million DKr (27 million dollars).


pmid: 31146221
title: Comprehensive analysis of circRNAs expression profiles in different periods of MDBK cells infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: CircRNAs play an important regulatory role in the regulation of disease. However, we have a limited understanding of the role of circRNAs in the host's complex protective and pathological mechanisms of BVDV infection. Transcriptome analysis of circRNAs in host cells after BVDV infection may allow us to understand the biological functions of circRNAs in the regulation of BVDV infection. Here, we identified a total of 19,118 circRNAs from the MBDK cells (at 12 h, 24 h, and 48 h post-infection) infected with BVDV by using RNA-seq technology. We confirmed several circRNAs using RT-PCR and DNA sequencing, and qRT-PCR analysis was performed to identify several circRNAs expression and circRNAs resistance to RNase R digestion. GO (Gene Ontology) and KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) enrichment analysis showed that the host genes of differentially expressed circRNAs were involved in the regulation of cell proliferation, apoptosis, cycle and viral infection related signaling pathways. These results indicate that circRNA in host cells plays a broad regulatory role after BVDV infection and provides a valuable resource for studying circRNA biology in host cells after BVDV infection.


pmid: 25201251
title: Virulence comparison and quantification of horizontal bovine viral diarrhoea virus transmission following experimental infection in calves
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) causes persistent infections by infecting the fetus of susceptible animals during gestation. These persistently infected (PI) animals are important sources of infection. On the contrary, transiently infected (TI) animals are believed to be less important, but transient infections with a severe BVDV-2 strain can spread explosively. To assess the importance of TI cattle in the epidemiology of BVDV, two experimental infections were performed to determine basic reproduction ratios (R0). In each experiment three calves were infected via intranasal inoculation and housed together with seven susceptible animals. Two strains isolated in Belgium were used, a virulent BVDV-1b and a virulent BVDV-2a field isolate, resulting in an R0 of 0.25 (95% CI 0.01; 1.95) and 0.24 (95% CI 0.01; 2.11), respectively. A PI animal was then introduced to the remaining uninfected animals and produced an R of +∞ (95% CI 1.88; +∞). These results support the suggestion that TI animals, compared to PI animals, contribute only a limited amount to BVDV spread. Additionally, the severe clinical symptoms observed in the field with these isolates could not be reproduced during these experiments, suggesting that other factors besides strain virulence influence the clinical manifestations evoked by BVDV.


pmid: 24101792
title: Effect of treatment with a cationic antiviral compound on acute infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a widespread bovine pathogen capable of causing disease affecting multiple body systems. Previous studies have shown 2-(2-benzimidazolyl)-5-[4-(2-imidazolino)phenyl]furan dihydrochloride (DB772) effectively prevents BVDV infection in cell culture. The aim of this project was to assess the efficacy of DB772 for the prevention of acute BVDV infection. Four calves seronegative to BVDV were treated with DB772 and another 4 calves were treated with diluent only on the same dosing schedule. Each calf was subsequently challenged intranasally with BVDV. Virus was isolated consistently from untreated calves on days 4 to 8, while treated calves remained negative by virus isolation during this period. Azotemia was exhibited by all treated calves on day 4 resulting in the euthanasia of 1 calf on day 10 and the death of another on day 13. Virus was isolated from the 2 remaining treated calves on day 14 or 21. On day 21, both remaining treated calves and all 4 untreated calves had anti-BVDV antibody titers > 1:2048. This pilot study indicates that DB772 temporarily prevented acute disease due to BVDV, but carries a significant concern of renal toxicity.


pmid: 24295740
title: First finding of genetic and antigenic diversity in 1b-BVDV isolates from Argentina
abstract: Infection with Bovine Viral Diarrhea Viruses (BVDV) in cattle results in a wide range of clinical manifestations, ranging from mild respiratory disease to fetal death and mucosal disease, depending on the virulence of the virus and the immune and reproductive status of the host. In this study 30 Argentinean BVDV isolates were characterized by phylogenetic analysis. The isolates were genotyped based on comparison of the 5' untranslated region (5' UTR) and the E2 gene. In both phylogenetic trees, 76% of the viruses were assigned to BVDV 1b, whereas BVDV 1a, 2a and 2b were also found. Eight of the BVDV 1b isolates were further characterized by cross-neutralization tests using guinea pig antisera and sera from bovines vaccinated with two different commercial vaccines. The results demonstrated the presence of a marked antigenic diversity among Argentinean BVDV isolates and suggest the need to incorporate BVDV 1b isolates in diagnostic strategies.


pmid: 21754993
title: Seroepidemiology of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in the Adamawa Region of Cameroon and use of the SPOT test to identify herds with PI calves
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea, caused by the bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in the Pestivirus genus of the Flaviviridae, is one of the most important diseases of cattle world wide causing poor reproductive performance in adult cattle and mucosal disease in calves. In addition it causes immunosuppression and increased susceptibility to other infections, the impact of which is uncertain, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa where animals are exposed to a much wider range and higher intensity of infections compared to Europe. There are no previous estimates of the seroprevalence of BVDV in cattle in Cameroon. This paper describes the serological screening for antibodies to BVDV and antigen of BVDV in a cattle population in the Adamawa Region of Cameroon in 2000. The estimates of herd-level and within herd seroprevalences adjusted for test imperfections were 92% and 30% respectively and 16.5% of herds were classed as having a persistently infected calf (PI) in the herd within the last year based on the "spot" test approach. There was evidence of clustering of herds with PI calves across the north and west of the Region which corresponds with the higher cattle density areas and of self-clearance of infection from herds. A multivariable model was developed for the risk of having a PI calf in the herd; proximity to antelope, owning a goat, mixing with > 10 other herds at grazing and the catchment area of the veterinary centre the herd was registered at were all significant risk factors. Very little is known about BVDV in sub-Saharan Africa and these high seroprevalences suggest that there is a large problem which may be having both direct impacts on fertility and neonate mortality and morbidity and also indirect effects through immunosuppression and susceptibility to other infections. Understanding and accounting for BVDV should be an important component of epidemiological studies of other diseases in sub-Saharan Africa.


pmid: 10364314
title: Nonhomologous RNA recombination in bovine viral diarrhea virus: molecular characterization of a variety of subgenomic RNAs isolated during an outbreak of fatal mucosal disease
abstract: Four bovine viral diarrhea virus type 2 (BVDV-2) pairs consisting of cytopathogenic (cp) and noncp BVDV-2 were isolated during an outbreak of mucosal disease. Comparative sequence analysis showed that the four noncp BVDV-2 isolates were almost identical. For the cp BVDV-2 isolates, viral subgenomic RNAs were shown by Northern blot to have a length of about 8 kb, which is about 4.3 kb shorter than the genome of noncp BVDV. Cytopathogenicity and the expression of NS3 were both strictly correlated to the presence of viral subgenomic RNAs. By reverse transcription-PCR, Southern blot analysis, and nucleotide sequencing, a set of 11 unique subgenomes was identified with up to 5 different subgenomes isolated from one animal. To our knowledge, this is the first report on isolation of a set of pestiviral subgenomes from individual animals. Common features of the BVDV-2 subgenomic RNAs include (i) deletion of most of the genomic region encoding the structural proteins, as well as the nonstructural proteins p7 and NS2, and (ii) insertion of cellular (poly)ubiquitin coding sequences. Three subgenomes also comprised 15 to 75 nucleotides derived from the 5' part of the NS2 gene. Comparisons of the obtained nucleotide sequences revealed that the different BVDV-2 subgenomes evolved from the respective noncp BVDV-2 by RNA recombination. The presence of short regions of sequence similarity at several crossing-over sites suggests that base pairing between the nascent RNA strand and the acceptor RNA template facilitates template switching of the BVDV RNA-dependent RNA polymerase.


pmid: 31983025
title: Seroprevalence and risk factors assessment of the three main infectious agents associated with abortion in dairy cattle in Isfahan province, Iran
abstract: This study aimed to determine the seroprevalence and identify the risk factors associated with Neospora caninum, Bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BHV-1), and Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection on industrial Holstein dairy cattle farms in Isfahan province, Central Iran. Blood samples were taken from 216 apparently healthy cattle from 16 randomly selected Holstein dairy farms in the North, South, East, and West of Isfahan in the summer of 2017. The antibodies to N. caninum, BHV-1, and BVDV were detected using a commercially available ELISA kit. The overall seroprevalence for N. caninum, BHV-1, and BVDV was 19%, 72.2%, and 52.8%, respectively. The significant major risk factors of BHV-1 in cattle were identified as farm direction, age groups, parity, and milk yield by the univariate analysis (p < 0.05). The significant major risk factors of BVDV in cattle were identified as age groups, parity, milk yield, and stage of pregnancy (p < 0.05). The only significant major risk factor of N. caninum was farm direction (p < 0.05). A significant association of concurrent infection with BVDV and BHV-1 has shown in the current study (p < 0.05). This study is the first to report the risk factors for N. caninum, BHV-1, and BVDV infection in the central part of Iran and allows us to conclude that these agents are widely distributed in this region.


pmid: 31102142
title: RNA-Seq-based transcriptomic profiling of primary interstitial cells of Cajal in response to bovine viral diarrhea virus infection
abstract: Infections with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) contribute significantly to health-related economic losses in the beef and dairy industries and are widespread throughout the world. Severe acute BVDV infection is characterized by a gastrointestinal (GI) inflammatory response. The mechanism of inflammatory lesions caused by BVDV remains unknown. The interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) network plays a pivotal role as a pacemaker in the generation of electrical slow waves for GI motility, and it is crucial for the reception of regulatory inputs from the enteric nervous system. The present study investigated whether ICC were a good model for studying GI inflammatory lesions caused by BVDV infection. Primary ICC were isolated from the duodenum of Merino sheep. The presence of BVDV was detected in ICC grown for five passages after BVDV infection, indicating that BVDV successfully replicated in ICC. After infection with BVDV strain TC, the cell proliferation proceeded slowly or declined. Morphological changes, including swelling, dissolution, and formation of vacuoles in the ICC were observed, indicating quantitative, morphological and functional changes in the cells. RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) was performed to investigate differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in BVDV-infected ICC and explore the molecular mechanism of underlying quantitative, morphological and functional changes of ICC. Eight hundred six genes were differentially expressed after BVDV infection, of which 538 genes were upregulated and 268 genes were downregulated. Gene Ontology (GO) enrichment and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses showed that the 806 DEGs were significantly enriched in 27 pathways, including cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, interleukin (IL)-17 signaling and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways. The DEGs and raw files of high-throughput sequencing of this study were submitted to the NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database (accession number GSE122344). Finally, 21 DEGs were randomly selected, and the relative repression levels of these genes were tested using the quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) to validate the RNA-Seq results. The results showed that the related expression levels of 21 DEGs were similar to RNA-Seq. This study is the first to establish a new infection model for investigating GI inflammatory lesions induced by BVDV infection. RNA-Seq-based transcriptomic profiling can provide a basis for study on BVDV-associated inflammatory lesions.


pmid: 18460614
title: Histopathologic and immunohistochemical findings in two white-tailed deer fawns persistently infected with Bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an important pathogen of domestic cattle. Serologic, experimental, and individual case studies explored the presence and pathogenesis of the virus in wild ungulates; however, there remain large gaps in knowledge regarding BVDV infection in nonbovine species. Live twins were born from a white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) doe infected with noncytopathic BVDV during its first trimester of pregnancy. The twins died at 1 day of age from trauma unrelated to the infection, and tissues were collected for histologic and immunohistochemical examination. The most significant histologic abnormality was diffuse depletion of B-lymphocytes in both fawns. The BVDV antigen was distributed widely throughout many tissues and cell types, most notably epithelium and vascular endothelium, consistent with that reported in cattle. In contrast to cattle, lymphocytes exhibited only very rare positive staining.


pmid: 1665461
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus contamination of nutrient serum, cell cultures and viral vaccines
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection is common in the bovine population. Infection in utero leads to virus and antibody contamination of the fetal bovine serum used in cell cultures. These contaminants can interfere with diagnosis of viral infection. The high frequency of virus and antibody detection in individual animal or small pool samples suggests that any large pool of unscreened sera will be contaminated. Infection of cell cultures with BVDV can lead to interference with the growth of other viruses. Vaccine produced on contaminated cells may in turn be contaminated, leading to seroconversion or disease in the vaccine. The safety, purity, and efficacy of viral vaccines require BVDV testing of ingredients, cell substrates and final product. Methods for detection of BVDV in nutrient serum, cell cultures, seed viruses, and viral vaccines, and the frequency of their detection at the National Veterinary Services Laboratories are discussed.


pmid: 2132155
title: Epidemiology of bovine virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: A better understanding of the epidemiology and pathogenesis of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) has emerged in recent years. Fetal infections and in particular those resulting in birth of persistently infected calves are of central importance for the epidemiology of BVDV. A prevalence of persistently infected, viraemic animals of about 1% is found in Denmark and elsewhere by examination of randomly collected blood samples. A recent field study shows that 53% of randomly selected herds in an area in Denmark where BVDV is endemic had one or more persistently infected animals. Persistently infected cows may breed and will always transmit the infection to the calf. Such familial occurrence of persistent infection seems to be a fairly common phenomenon. Persistently infected cattle are important sources of infection to other cattle. Transiently infected cattle following experimental exposure will usually not transmit the infection by contact but this may not always apply to cattle after natural infection. Knowledge of the occurrence and potential for spread of virus from persistently infected bulls is reviewed. Virus is excreted with semen of both persistently and transiently infected bulls and BVDV may be transmitted by use of infected semen for insemination. The potential for spread of the infection through embryo transfer should be avoided by the use of adequate testing and controls.


pmid: 12423040
title: Isolation of bovine viral diarrhea virus from an alpaca
abstract: A frozen, stillborn alpaca (Lama pacos) was submitted to the Minnesota Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory for diagnostic purposes. No gross or histopathologic changes of any significance were seen. A pool of lung, liver, and brain tissues was positive for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. On inoculation in cell cultures, a noncytopathic BVDV (type 1b) was isolated. No evidence of BVDV was seen on immunohistochemical examination of tissues. This indicates the importance of using multiple tests for arriving at a diagnosis and appears to be the first report of BVDV isolation from alpaca.


pmid: 26939061
title: Morphology and Molecular Composition of Purified Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Envelope
abstract: The family Flaviviridae includes viruses that have different virion structures and morphogenesis mechanisms. Most cellular and molecular studies have been so far performed with viruses of the Hepacivirus and Flavivirus genera. Here, we studied bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a member of the Pestivirus genus. We set up a method to purify BVDV virions and analyzed their morphology by electron microscopy and their protein and lipid composition by mass spectrometry. Cryo-electron microscopy showed near spherical viral particles displaying an electron-dense capsid surrounded by a phospholipid bilayer with no visible spikes. Most particles had a diameter of 50 nm and about 2% were larger with a diameter of up to 65 nm, suggesting some size flexibility during BVDV morphogenesis. Morphological and biochemical data suggested a low envelope glycoprotein content of BVDV particles, E1 and E2 being apparently less abundant than Erns. Lipid content of BVDV particles displayed a ~2.3 to 3.5-fold enrichment in cholesterol, sphingomyelin and hexosyl-ceramide, concomitant with a 1.5 to 5-fold reduction of all glycerophospholipid classes, as compared to lipid content of MDBK cells. Although BVDV buds in the endoplasmic reticulum, its lipid content differs from a typical endoplasmic reticulum membrane composition. This suggests that BVDV morphogenesis includes a mechanism of lipid sorting. Functional analyses confirmed the importance of cholesterol and sphingomyelin for BVDV entry. Surprisingly, despite a high cholesterol and sphingolipid content of BVDV envelope, E2 was not found in detergent-resistant membranes. Our results indicate that there are differences between the structure and molecular composition of viral particles of Flaviviruses, Pestiviruses and Hepaciviruses within the Flaviviridae family.


pmid: 9403511
title: Genotypic analysis of the 5'-untranslated region of a pestivirus strain isolated from human leucocytes
abstract: The 5'-untranslated genomic region of the pestivirus strain Europa, originated in human leucocytes and previously identified as bovine diarrhea virus (BVDV), was amplified by reverse transcription-PCR and sequenced. Analyses based on primary nucleotide sequence homology and on secondary palindromic sequence structures characteristic to genotypes revealed that this human isolate should be assigned to a novel genotype of pestivirus, type Ic. This newly emerged genotype was related to, but distinguishable from the three known BVDV genotypes, Ia, Ib and II. Three other bovine field isolates of BVDV originated from Germany were also found to belong to this new genotype Ic. Within pestivirus genotype Ic strains, the overall nucleotide sequence homology was 95-96%, and 88-92%, 88-90% and 77-79% with the other BVDV genotypes Ia, Ib and II, respectively. With the strains from border disease virus (genotype III) and hog cholera virus (genotype IV), homologies were less than 75%.


pmid: 24963321
title: Generation of the bovine viral diarrhea virus e0 protein in transgenic astragalus and its immunogenicity in sika deer
abstract: The bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a single-stranded RNA virus, can cause fatal diarrhea syndrome, respiratory problems, and reproductive disorders in herds. Over the past few years, it has become clear that the BVDV infection rates are increasing and it is likely that an effective vaccine for BVDV will be needed. In this study, transgenic Astragalus was used as an alternative productive platform for the expression of glycoprotein E0. The immunogenicity of glycoprotein E0 expressed in transgenic Astragalus was detected in deer. The presence of pBI121-E0 was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), transcription was verified by reverse transcription- (RT-) PCR, and recombinant protein expression was confirmed by ELISA and Western blot analyses. Deer that were immunized subcutaneously with the transgenic plant vaccine developed specific humoral and cell-mediated immune responses against BVDV. This study provides a new method for a protein with weak immunogenicity to be used as part of a transgenic plant vaccine.


pmid: 10070699
title: Level and duration of serum antibodies in cattle infected experimentally and naturally with bovine virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: Neutralising serum antibodies against bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) were monitored for three years in 35 cattle that were infected with the virus as calves; 24 of the calves were inoculated intramuscularly or intranasally, and 11 contracted the infection naturally. All the experimentally infected calves seroconverted within 14 to 28 days after inoculation, and all the animals still had high serum levels of antibodies to BVDV three years after infection. Determinations of antibody levels in milk and blood samples excluded the possibility that the calves had been reinfected with BVDV during the study.


pmid: 8760414
title: Cell death induced by cytopathic bovine viral diarrhoea virus is mediated by apoptosis
abstract: Cells infected with two closely related isolates of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), one cytopathic (CP) and one non-cytopathic (NCP), were examined for signs of apoptosis. The results from labelling DNA using terminal transferase and biotinylated dUTP and by observing oligonucleosomal-sized DNA fragmentation indicated that the CP strain of BVDV induced apoptosis in cell culture but the NCP strain did not. Induction of apoptosis correlated with infected cells undergoing apoptosis rather than interactions between infected and uninfected cells and the induction of apoptosis by CP BVDV was a dominant trait in cells co-infected with both types of virus.


pmid: 1966727
title: Electron microscopy of bovine virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: Bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) has been (tentatively) identified by electron microscopy in purified virus preparations, in infected cell cultures and in tissues and cells from infected animals. These studies have revealed a spherical membrane-bound particle with a diameter of 40-60 nm. The membrane is smooth, bilaminar and surrounds a dense or semi-dense core of 20-25 nm. The core particle may be isometric or hexagonal. In studies of the morphogenesis of BVDV in infected cell cultures, it was found that assembly and maturation of the viral particles occur via a condensation process within membrane-bound vesicular organelles, in which the virions subsequently accumulate. Release of the virus occurs when the cell finally lyses and/or via exocytosis. Thus, both with regard to morphogenesis and to morphology, BVDV bears close resemblance to the Flaviviridae.


pmid: 15062481
title: Strategies for the control and prevention of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Several key factors influence the success of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) prevention and control measures. Current knowledge and an understanding of the problem and the impact of BVDV-associated disease by the livestock industry will facilitate the organization and tremendous effort required to control BVDV successfully.


pmid: 22537480
title: Genetic diversity and frequency of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) detected in cattle in Turkey
abstract: The aim of this study was to investigate the frequency and diversity of bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) infecting cattle in Turkey. A total of 1124 bovine blood samples from 19 farms in 4 different Turkish regions were tested by antigen capture ELISA (ACE). BVDV antigen was found in 26 samples from 13 farms. Only 20 of the 26 initial test positive cattle were available for retesting. Of these, 6 of 20 tested positive for BVDV, by ACE and real-time RT-PCR, one month after initial testing. Phylogenetic analysis, based on comparison of the E2 or the 5'UTR coding regions, from 19 of the 26 initial positive samples, indicated that 17 belonged to the BVDV-1 genotype and 2 to the BVDV-2 genotype. Comparison of 5'UTR sequences segregated 8 BVDV-1 strains (strains 5, 6, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, and 19) to the BVDV1f, 1 strain (strain 8) to the BVDV1i and 1 strain (strain 14) to the BVDV1d subgenotypes. One strain (strain 4) did not group with other subgenotypes but was closer to the BVDV1f. The remaining 6 BVDV-1 strains (strains 1, 2, 3, 7, 9, and 18) segregated to a novel subgenotype. The E2 sequence comparison results were similar, with the exception that strain 5 grouped with the novel subgenotype rather than BVDV1f subgenotype. It appears that among the diverse BVDV strains in circulation there may be a subgenotype that is unique to Turkey. This should be considered in the design of diagnostics and vaccines to be used in Turkey.


pmid: 19157928
title: Control of bovine virus diarrhoea at the herd level: reducing the risk of false negatives in the detection of persistently infected cattle
abstract: The need to detect and eliminate cattle persistently infected (PI) with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is key to the control of BVD and has been shown to be very effective in eradicating BVDV from infected herds. However, because of pitfalls in the detection procedures, some PI animals can be missed and, as a result, are not identified and removal is delayed. The high prevalence of BVDV in cattle populations in some countries (such as Belgium and neighbouring countries) means there is a high risk of reinfection of a herd from which BVDV has been eradicated. Based on both practical experience and a literature study, this review considers those points that are critical to minimising the number of false negatives in the detection of PI cattle.


pmid: 2845638
title: Effect in vitro of bovine viral diarrhea virus on bovine embryos with the zona pellucida intact, damaged and removed
abstract: The in vitro effect of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) on the survival of day 7 to day 7.5 bovine embryos collected from superovulated donors was studied. Fifty-four experimental embryos with the zona pellucida (ZP) intact, damaged or removed were exposed to 1 X 10(4) TCD50/ml of the NADL cytopathic strain of BVDC at 37 degrees C for 24 hrs and compared to 36 control embryos that were cultured for 24 hr. Seven embryos with the ZP-removed were similarly exposed for 48 hrs and compared to five control embryos. The overall survival rate was 68% for embryos exposed to BVDV for 24 hrs and 77% for embryos not exposed (P greater than 0.05). Extended exposure of the embryos with the ZP removed to virus for 48 hrs did not affect their survival rate compared to controls. Damage to the ZP by cracking or total removal of the ZP by micromanipulation or acidic Tyrode's solution had no effect on subsequent embryonic survival in the presence of BVDV. It was concluded that exposure to BVDV in vitro is not cytopathic for morula and blastocyst stage bovine embryos over a 48 hr period, even when they are not protected by the ZP.


pmid: 6279056
title: Electron microscopic studies of bovine viral diarrhea virus in tissues of diseased calves and in cell cultures
abstract: Pathomorphological studies by electron microscopy (EM) were carried out on the intestines and lymphoid tissues, the buffy coat cells and cultured lymphocytes from calves suffering from mucosal disease (MD). This led to the detection of particles, 45--55 nm in diameter, within characteristic vesicular structures. As these findings coincided with the isolation of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) from the same tissues and demonstration of BVDV-antigen by immunocytochemical techniques in corresponding samples, the particles were tentatively identified as the BVDV. A detailed study of in vitro infected bovine cell cultures corroborated this supposition and contributed to a conjectural evaluation of the viral morphogenesis. It revealed a difference from the morphogenesis of most other togaviruses, as the presumed virions were assembled within smooth-membraned vesicles, formed during the infection. Thus, in the material examined, a budding process was not involved in the development of BVDV.


pmid: 30468331
title: Detection of seroconversion to bovine herpesvirus 1 related alphaherpesvirus and bovine viral diarrhea virusin Polish free-living deer
abstract: There are several infectious agents of domestic cattle that can also be present in free-living ruminant populations. These include bovine herpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) which are the causative agents of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis and bovine viral diarrhea, respectively. The study was conducted on serum samples from 59 red deer, 24 roe deer, and 3 fallow deer (86 in total), originating from two geographically separate areas of Poland. The samples were tested with commercially available ELISA tests for BoHV-1 and BVDV. The overall seroprevalence was 5.8% and 3.5%, respectively. All positive samples originated exclusively from red deer. Because of BoHV-1 ELISA cross reactivity with cervid herpesvirus 1 and 2 (CvHV-1 and -2) the nature of alphaherpesviruses infecting the sampled animals could not be assessed.


pmid: 18204031
title: Transmission of bovine viral diarrhoea virus through the semen of acutely infected bulls under field conditions
abstract: Epidemiological investigations implicated the semen of artificial insemination (ai) bulls as the only plausible source of infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (bvdv) in 10 Finnish dairy herds. The infection was traced back to two northern Finncattle bulls that had been transiently infected when their semen had been collected while they were in a gene bank herd containing persistently infected (pi) animals. The isolates of bvdv from the animals in the gene bank herd, from the semen of the two bulls and from a pi calf born in one of the herds using the semen belonged to a rare genetic type in Finland and, on the basis of the nucleotide sequences in the 5' untranslated region, were identical. Cross-contamination of batches of semen at the ai station and an external source of bvdv were ruled out for the recipient herds. It was concluded that bvdv infection can be transmitted through the semen of transiently infected bulls under field conditions.


pmid: 12655125
title: Efficacy of bovine viral diarrhea vaccine used in Japan against bovine viral diarrhea virus type 2 strain 890
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has been segregated into two genotypes, type 1 and type 2. To determine the efficacy of the commercially available bovine viral diarrhea type 1 vaccine used in Japan against BVDV type 2, calves were infected with BVDV type 2 strain 890 4 weeks after administration of the vaccine. The vaccinated calves did not develop any clinical signs and hematological changes such as observed in unvaccinated calves after the challenge. Furthermore, the challenge virus was not recovered from the vaccinated calves throughout the duration of the experiment, whereas it was recovered from all unvaccinated calves. The bovine viral diarrhea vaccine used in Japan is efficacious against infection with BVDV type 2 strain 890.


pmid: 18839325
title: Prevalence of Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus antibodies among the industrial dairy cattle herds in suburb of Mashhad-Iran
abstract: Mashhad is a major dairy production in Iran. The subject of this study was to survey the seroprevalence of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) infection using an indirect Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test in industrial dairy cattle herds in suburb of Mashhad-Iran. Totally, 141 serum samples were tested. None of the herds had been vaccinated against BVDV. Commercial indirect ELISA kit was used. The herds divided to 3 sizes as cow population. They were included: small, medium and large herds. Data were analyzed using Chi-square test. Ninety-seven (68.79%) cows were ELISA seropositive. However, the true BVDV seroprevalence was 72.25%. All of the herds were antibody positive against BVDV. The prevalence ranged from 66 to 100% within the herds. There were no significant differences between the presence of antibodies to BVDV and the herd size (P > 0.05). The prevalence in animals lower than 2 years old differed significantly with cows higher than 2 years old (P < 0.05). According to the results, it is concluded that it is likely the presence of persistently infection (PI) animal(s) within the herds in suburb of Mashhad-Iran, which is responsible for the presence antibody.


pmid: 18839325
title: Prevalence of Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus antibodies among the industrial dairy cattle herds in suburb of Mashhad-Iran
abstract: Mashhad is a major dairy production in Iran. The subject of this study was to survey the seroprevalence of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) infection using an indirect Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test in industrial dairy cattle herds in suburb of Mashhad-Iran. Totally, 141 serum samples were tested. None of the herds had been vaccinated against BVDV. Commercial indirect ELISA kit was used. The herds divided to 3 sizes as cow population. They were included: small, medium and large herds. Data were analyzed using Chi-square test. Ninety-seven (68.79%) cows were ELISA seropositive. However, the true BVDV seroprevalence was 72.25%. All of the herds were antibody positive against BVDV. The prevalence ranged from 66 to 100% within the herds. There were no significant differences between the presence of antibodies to BVDV and the herd size (P > 0.05). The prevalence in animals lower than 2 years old differed significantly with cows higher than 2 years old (P < 0.05). According to the results, it is concluded that it is likely the presence of persistently infection (PI) animal(s) within the herds in suburb of Mashhad-Iran, which is responsible for the presence antibody.


pmid: 16610805
title: Synthesis and anti-BVDV activity of acridones as new potential antiviral agents
abstract: In this study we report the design, synthesis, and activity against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) of a novel series of acridone derivatives. BVDV is responsible for major losses in cattle. The virus is also considered to be a valuable surrogate for the hepatitis C virus (HCV) in antiviral drug studies. Some of the synthesized acridones elicited selective anti-BVDV activity with EC(50) values ranging from 0.4 to 4 microg/mL and were not cytotoxic at concentrations that were 25- to 200-fold higher (CC(50) >100 microg/mL). It was proven that the most potent acridone derivative 10 was able to not only protect cells from virus-induced cytopathic effect but also reduce the production of infectious virus and extracellular viral RNA. Furthermore, compound 10, as well as a number of other analogues, inhibited HCV replication to some extent. However, there was no direct correlation between anti-BVDV and anti-HCV activity. Thus, the acridone scaffold, when appropriately functionalized, can yield compounds with selective activity against pestiviruses and related viruses such as the HCV.


pmid: 10355761
title: Oxidative stress in cells infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus: a crucial step in the induction of apoptosis
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) belongs to the genus Pestivirus of the family Flaviviridae. Both a noncytopathic (ncp) and an antigenically related cytopathic (cp) BVDV can be isolated from persistently infected animals suffering from mucosal disease. In every case studied so far, the genomic changes leading to the cp biotype correlate with the production of the NS3 nonstructural protein, which, in the ncp biotype, is present in its uncleaved form, NS23. This report shows that, in contrast to ncp BVDV, the cp biotype induces apoptosis in cultured embryonic bovine turbinate cells. Early in the process of apoptosis, cells show a rise in the intracellular level of reactive oxygen species, which is indicative of oxidative stress. This precedes two hallmarks of apoptosis, caspase activation as shown by cleavage of the caspase substrate poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase, and DNA fragmentation. Cells were protected from apoptosis only by certain antioxidants (butylated hydroxyanisole and ebselen), whereas others (N-acetylcysteine, pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate, lipoic acid, dihydrolipoic acid and tiron) turned out to be ineffective. Antioxidants that protected cells from apoptosis prevented oxidative stress but failed to block virus growth. These observations suggest that oxidative stress, which occurs early in the interaction between cp BVDV and its host cell, may be a crucial event in the sequence leading to apoptotic cell death. Hence, apoptosis is not required for the multiplication of the cp biotype of BVDV.


pmid: 26210765
title: Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus-Associated Disease in Feedlot Cattle
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDv) is associated with bovine respiratory disease complex and other diseases of feedlot cattle. Although occasionally a primary pathogen, BVDv's impact on cattle health is through the immunosuppressive effects of the virus and its synergism with other pathogens. The simple presence or absence of BVDv does not result in consistent health outcomes because BVDv is only one of many risk factors that contribute to disease syndromes. Current interventions have limitations and the optimum strategy for their uses to limit the health, production, and economic costs associated with BVDv have to be carefully considered for optimum cost-effectiveness.


pmid: 23971208
title: Reduction of prevalence of persistent BVDV infection in cattle herds by long-term vaccination program (preliminary clinical study)
abstract: Effectiveness of long-term anti-BVDV vaccination program in reducing prevalence of persistent BVDV infection in cattle herds was evaluated in seven years observational study (2005-2011). Among three seropositive dairy cattle herds (within herd seroprevalence 100%, confirmed by ELISA Herd Check BVDV Ab, IDEXX, Sweden) vaccination program based on inactivated vaccine (cytopathic strain 5960) was commenced in 2007 in two herds and continued till 2010. In the years 2007-2011 all calves aged 2-12 weeks in all three herds were tested yearly with RT-PCR in order to detect persistently infected individuals. For the entire study period true prevalence of BVDV persistent infection was significantly lower in vaccinated than in non-vaccinated herd. This may imply the role of long-term vaccination program in reducing prevalence of persistent BVDV infection in cattle herds.


pmid: 22858000
title: Enterocytozoon bieneusi in Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) infected and noninfected cattle herds
abstract: Enterocytozoon bieneusi known as a causative agent of opportunistic infections instigating diarrhoea in AIDS patients was identified also in a number of immunocompetent patients and in a wide range of animals, including cattle. In the present study we tested if the Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV), the most common pathogen underlying immunosuppressive Bovine Viral Diarrhoea (BVD), can enhance the occurrence of opportunistic infections with E. bieneusi in cattle. Six dairy farms were investigated using ELISA to detect antibodies against or antigens arising from BVDV in collected sera. A total of 240 individual faecal samples from four age groups were examined for the presence of E. bieneusi by nested PCR. Sequence analysis of six E. bieneusi positive samples revealed the presence of the genotype I of E. bieneusi, previously described in cattle. The hypothesis expecting higher prevalence of E. bieneusi in BVDV positive cattle herds was not confirmed in this study; however this is the first description about E. bieneusi in cattle in the Czech Republic.


pmid: 19059738
title: Genotyping and phylogenetic analysis of bovine viral diarrhea virus isolates from BVDV infected alpacas in North America
abstract: Over a three-year period, 2004-2007, greater than 12,000 alpacas in the United States were screened by real-time RT-PCR to identify alpacas persistently infected (PI) with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). A total of 46 BVD viruses were isolated from PI alpacas or diagnostic samples from alpacas. Forty-three US alpaca BVDV isolates and 3 Canadian isolates were analyzed by comparison of nucleotide sequences of two viral genomic regions, the 5'-UTR and the N(pro) gene to determine their genetic relatedness. All 46 alpaca BVDV isolates from 8 different states of the US and Canada were genotype 1b with > or =99% nt identity in the 290-base 5'-UTR region with the exception of one Canadian isolate. In contrast, 21 bovine BVDV isolates collected during the same period were grouped into the typical 3 genotypes, 1a, 1b, and 2, respectively. Forty five alpaca BVDV isolates formed a distinctive cluster separated from closely related bovine genotype 1b isolates by phylogenetic analysis of the 5'-UTR region. Comparison of the 504-base N(pro) gene sequences of 32 alpaca isolates also assigned them all to type 1b in a similar fashion as observed with the 5'-UTR region. The results suggest that unique genotypes of bovine BVDV 1b may be maintained in the alpaca population even though camelids are susceptible to infection by other genotypes. Further studies are needed to address why alpacas were predominantly infected with genotype 1b BVDV isolates and how bovine BVD viruses evolved to infect alpacas.


pmid: 18182513
title: Prevalence and characterization of bovine viral diarrhea virus in the white-tailed deer population in Indiana
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) is one of the economically important diseases of cattle. For many years, different types of vaccines have been commercially available, yet this disease is hard to control in high-density population areas. Detection and isolation of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) from any potential reservoir is vital, especially when considering virus eradication from a herd or locale. One potential source is wild ruminants. Ear notches and lymph nodes were collected from the wild population of white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) during deer hunting season in Indiana and tested for BVDV with a commercial BVD antigen capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Two samples out of 745 collected samples were positive, and subsequently cp and ncp BVDV was isolated from 1 ear notch and 1 lymph node. These isolates were genotyped as type 1a and 1b based on sequence analysis of the 5' untranslated region (UTR). The results of the present study indicate that the prevalence of BVDV in the white-tailed deer population of Indiana is about 0.3%. Wild ruminants infected with BVDV should be taken into consideration during an eradication program of BVDV from the livestock population.


pmid: 27529119
title: Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Infects Monocyte-Derived Bovine Dendritic Cells by an E2-Glycoprotein-Mediated Mechanism and Transiently Impairs Antigen Presentation
abstract: Infection of professional antigen presenting cells by viruses can have a marked effect on these cells and important consequences for the generation of subsequent immune responses. In this study, we demonstrate that different strains of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infect bovine dendritic cells differentiated from nonadherent peripheral monocytes (moDCs). BVDV did not cause apoptosis in these cells. Infection of moDC was prevented by incubating the virus with anti-E2 antibodies or by pretreating the cells with recombinant E2 protein before BVDV contact, suggesting that BVDV infects moDC through an E2-mediated mechanism. Virus entry was not reduced by incubating moDC with Mannan or ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) before infection, suggesting that Ca(2+) and mannose receptor-dependent pathways are not mediating BVDV entry to moDC. Infected moDC did not completely upregulate maturation surface markers. Infection, but not treatment with inactivated virus, prevented moDC to present a third-party antigen to primed CD4(+) T cells within the first 24 hours postinfection (hpi). Antigen-presenting capacity was recovered when viral replication diminished at 48 hpi, suggesting that active infection may interfere with moDC maturation. Altogether, our results suggest an important role of infected DCs in BVDV-induced immunopathogenesis.


pmid: 25145871
title: Expression of toll-like receptors and co-stimulatory molecules in lymphoid tissue during experimental infection of beef calves with bovine viral diarrhea virus of low and high virulence
abstract: The objective of this study was to compare the mRNA expression of Toll-like receptors (TLR3 and TLR7), and costimulatory molecules involved in activation of lymphocytes and antigen presenting cells (CD80, CD86, CD28, and CD40L) after experimental infection of beef calves with low or high virulence noncytopathic (ncp) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strains. Thirty BVDV-naïve, beef calves were intranasally inoculated with low (LV; n=10, SD-1) or high (HV; n=10, 1373) virulence ncp BVDV or with BVDV-free cell culture medium (Control, n=10). Calves were euthanized on day 5 post-inoculation and tracheo-bronchial lymph node (TBLN) and spleen samples were collected for mRNA expression through quantitative-RT-PCR. Levels of mRNA for TLR3 and TLR7 were increased in spleen of HV group (P<0.05), but not in LV group, compared to the control group. Expression of CD86 mRNA was up-regulated in TBLN of both LV and HV groups (P<0.05). A significant up-regulation of CD80 mRNA was observed in TBLN for LV calves (P<0.05), but not for HV calves. In conclusion, experimental inoculation with high virulence BVDV-2 1373 stimulated the expression of TLR3, TLR7 and CD86 in spleen and TBLN on day 5 post infection. In contrast, experimental challenge with the low virulence BVDV-1 SD-1 uniquely resulted in up-regulation of both CD80 and CD86 in TBLN samples on day 5 post infection. The observed differential expression during acute infection with high or low virulence BVDV might reflect differences in immune activation by these strains, which could be associated with differences in genotype and/or virulence.


pmid: 18198376
title: DNA prime protein boost strategies protect cattle from bovine viral diarrhea virus type 2 challenge
abstract: At present, infections with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type 2 occur nearly as frequently as those with BVDV type 1, so development of vaccines that protect cattle from both type 1 and type 2 BVDV has become critical. In this study, we compared various DNA prime-protein boost vaccination strategies to protect cattle from challenge with BVDV-2 using the major protective antigen of BVDV, glycoprotein E2. Calves were immunized with a plasmid encoding either type 1 E2 (E2.1) or type 2 E2 (E2.2) or with both plasmids (E2.1+E2.2). This was followed by a heterologous boost with E2.1, E2.2 or E2.1 and E2.2 protein formulated with Emulsigen and a CpG oligodeoxynucleotide. Subsequently, the calves were challenged with BVDV-2 strain 1373. All vaccinated calves developed both humoral and cell-mediated immune responses, including virus-neutralizing antibodies and IFN-gamma-secreting cells in the peripheral blood. Depletion studies showed that CD4+ T cells were responsible for IFN-gamma production. Furthermore, the calves vaccinated with either the E2.2 or the E2.1+E2.2 vaccines were very well protected from challenge with BVDV-2, having little leukopenia and showing no weight loss or temperature response. In addition, the animals vaccinated with the E2.1 vaccine were partially protected, so there was a certain level of cross-protection. These data demonstrate that a vaccination strategy consisting of priming with E2.2 or E2.1+E2.2 DNA and boosting with E2.2 or E2.1+E2.2 protein fully protects cattle from BVDV-2 challenge.


pmid: 22379042
title: Antigenic relationships between Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 and 2 and HoBi virus: possible impacts on diagnosis and control
abstract: The emergence of a newly recognized group of pestiviruses in cattle, the HoBi-like viruses, requires an evaluation of the available diagnostic tools and vaccines. The present study compared antigenic characteristics of Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 and 2 (BVDV-1, -2) strains and HoBi virus. This comparison was based on detection of HoBi virus and antibodies against it by commercial enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) and the level of cross-neutralizing antibodies present in sera from animals vaccinated with BVDV. Reactivity with a panel of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) revealed greater cross-reactivity between BVDV species (BVDV-1, -2) and HoBi epitopes within E(rns) and NS2/3 proteins than between epitopes located in the E2 glycoprotein. The results suggest that a diagnostic test designed to detect both BVDV species and HoBi could be based on E(rns) or NS2/3 epitopes, while variation among E2 epitopes could be exploited in tests for differentiation of pestivirus species. The threshold of detection of HoBi virus by an antigen-capture ELISA kit based on detection of E(rns) was statistically similar to that for BVDV. In contrast, 2 commercial ELISA kits designed to detect antibodies against BVDV missed 22.2% and 77.7%, respectively, of serum samples harboring HoBi virus-neutralizing antibodies. In addition, sera of calves vaccinated with BVDV-1 and -2 presented low neutralizing activity against HoBi virus. The results demonstrate that in spite of antigenic similarities, HoBi virus is antigenically distinct from both BVDV species. Detection and control of HoBi virus infections in cattle would thus require the development of new diagnostic reagents and reformulation of current vaccines.


pmid: 8581856
title: The clinical manifestations of bovine viral diarrhea infection
abstract: BVDV infections may result in a wide range of clinical manifestations ranging from subclinical infections to a severe, highly fatal form referred to as MD. In recent years, a better understanding of pathogenesis has been achieved that has allowed for a better understanding of the different clinical forms of BVDV infection. Knowledge in this area continues to evolve. The clinical forms of BVDV infections are best understood by breaking them into categories that include infections in immunocompetent cattle, fetal infections, and infections in cattle that are immunotolerant to BVDV.


pmid: 22947489
title: Cell-mediated immune response during experimental acute infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus: evaluation of blood parameters
abstract: Acute infections with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), a major pathogen of cattle, are often asymptomatic or produce only mild clinical symptoms. However, they may play an important role in the bovine respiratory disease complex by exerting a marked immunosuppressive effect, as a result of the death of the immunocompetent cell populations involved in controlling innate and adaptive immune responses, together with a marked reduction of both cytokine expression and co-stimulatory molecule synthesis. Although experimental research and field studies have shown that acute BVDV infection enhances susceptibility to secondary infection, the precise mechanism involved in BVDV-induced immunosuppression remains unclear. The present study is aimed at measuring a range of blood parameters in a single group of fourteen calves infected with non-cytopathic BVDV-1. Focus has been put on those related to the cell-mediated immune response just as leucocyte populations and lymphocyte subpopulations, serum concentrations of cytokines (IL-1β, TNF-α, IFN-γ, IL-12, IL-4 and IL-10) and acute phase proteins [haptoglobin, serum amyloid A (SAA), fibrinogen and albumin], as well as BVDV-specific antibodies and viremia. After non-cytopathic BVDV-1 infection, clinical signs intensity was never more than moderate coinciding with the presence of viremia and leucocyte and lymphocyte depletion. An early increase in TNF-α, IFN-γ and IL-12 levels in contrast to IL-1β was observed in line with a raise in haptoglobin and SAA levels on the latest days of the study. As regards IL-4 levels, no evidence was found of any changes. However, a slight increase in IL-10 was observed, matching up the TNF-α decline during the acute phase response. These findings would help to increase our knowledge of the immune mechanisms involved in acute infection with non-cytopathic BVDV-1 strains, suggesting the existence of a clear tendency towards a type 1 immune response, thereby enhancing resistance against viral infections.


pmid: 31783904
title: Estimation of the within-herd transmission rates of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in extensively grazed beef cattle herds
abstract: Many research groups have developed mathematical models to simulate the dynamics of BVDV infections in cattle herds. However, most models use estimates for within-herd BVDV transmission rates that are either based on expert opinion or adapted from other dairy herd simulation models presented in the literature. There is currently little information on the transmission rates for BVDV in extensively grazed beef herds partly due to the logistical challenges in obtaining longitudinal data of individual animal's seroconversion, and it may not be appropriate to apply the same transmission rates from intensive dairy herds given the significant differences in herd demographics and management. To address this knowledge gap, we measured BVDV antibody levels in 15 replacement heifers in each of 75 New Zealand beef breeding farms after their first calving and again at pregnancy scanning or weaning to check for seroconversion. Among these, data from 9 farms were used to infer the within-herd BVDV transmission rate with an approximate Bayesian computation method. The most probable within-herd BVDV transmission rate was estimated as 0.11 per persistently infected (PI) animal per day with a 95% highest posterior density interval between 0.03 and 0.34. This suggests that BVDV transmission in extensively grazed beef herds is generally slower than in dairy herds where the transmission rate has been estimated at 0.50 per PI animal per day and therefore may not be sufficient to ensure that all susceptible breeding females gain adequate immunity to the virus before the risk period of early pregnancy for generating new PI calves.


pmid: 24719194
title: Genomic characterization of a bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 isolate from swine
abstract: The SD0803 strain of the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was isolated from a piglet in China in 2008 and has been classified as a novel subgenotype of BVDV-1. To describe the molecular features of this novel subgenotype, we sequenced and characterized the complete genome of the SD0803 virus. The genome is 12,271 bp in length and contains 5' and 3' untranslated regions (UTRs) that flank an open reading frame (ORF) encoding a 3,898-amino-acid polypeptide. The full-length genome of the SD0803 strain shares 78.8% to 83.3% identity with those of other BVDV-1 strains, 70.0% to 70.7% identity with those of BVDV-2 strains, and less than 67.6% identity with those of other pestiviruses. The highest level of shared identity was 83.3% between the complete SD0803 genome and that of the ZM-95 strain of BVDV-1. Phylogenetic analysis of the 5' UTR and the coding sequence for the N-terminal protease fragment of the SD0803 polyprotein indicated that the SD0803 virus is a member of the novel subgenotype BVDV-1q, isolates of which have been identified recently in dairy cattle and camels in China.


pmid: 21680116
title: Genetic and splice variations of Bos taurus CD46 shift cell permissivity to BVDV, the bovine pestivirus
abstract: The pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is known to bind to the CD46 molecule, which subsequently promotes entry of the virus. Mapping of the BVD-virion-binding site has shown that two peptides, 66EQIV69 and 82GQVLAL87, located on antiparallel beta sheets in the most distal complement control protein module (CCP1), provide the attachment platform. In the present study, we reveal the existence of ten distinct allelic versions of the CCP1 module, varying significantly in frequency among taurine and indicine races. A complex mRNA splicing pattern was also evidenced for bovine CD46, generating three different serine-threonine-proline segments and five different cytoplasmic domains. The four most frequent allelic variants and the six splice variants were then expressed in BVDV-nonpermissive porcine cells and the quantity of progeny virions generated by each cell preparation was measured 48 h post-infection. As expected, ectopic expression of the 10 bovine CD46 isoforms rendered the PK15 cells permissive to BVDV, as attested by the 100,000-fold greater recovery of virions from these cells than from non-transfected cells. This permissivity increase was significantly lower (-33%, P<0.001) when the canonical CCP1 was replaced with the variant most frequent in zebus, suggesting positive or negative selection of this allele in the latter and in the former, respectively. The predicted secondary structure of this variant suggests that the measured loss of function is due to the disappearance of one of the two beta sheets constituting the BVDV attachment platform. On the other hand we showed that for a given CCP1, the titer recovered at 48 hpi also depended on the nature of the CD46 cytoplasmic domain (P<0.001). This result implies that virus binding generates a cytoplasmic-tail-dependent outside-in signal that determines permissivity to BVDV.


pmid: 8928576
title: Immunohistochemical detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus in skin biopsies: a reliable and fast diagnostic tool
abstract: Skin biopsies from 184 cattle were immunohistochemically tested for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection. BVDV infection was detected sensitively and specifically by visceral organ immunohistochemistry or by standard virological methods.


pmid: 7520240
title: Noncytopathic strains of bovine viral diarrhea virus prime bovine bone marrow-derived macrophages for enhanced generation of nitric oxide
abstract: Bovine bone marrow-derived macrophages (BBMM) were infected in vitro with a cytopathic (cp) and a noncytopathic (ncp) biotype of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). The virus strains used, TGAN (ncp) and TGAC (cp), originate from one animal and are antigenically closely related. Both TGAC and TGAN infected a subset of BBMM. Only cp BVDV induced a cytopathic effect. Infection of BBMM resulted in the modulation of certain macrophage functions. Only ncp strains of BVDV primed BBMM for enhanced reactive nitrogen production in response to Salmonella dublin. In contrast, infection with both biotypes did not influence bacteria-induced procoagulant activity and both biotypes equally reduced PMA-induced superoxide production. This suggests that the two biotypes differentially and selectively affect certain macrophage functions related to host defense. For the first time, a BVDV biotype-associated difference has been related to a biochemical parameter of the host cell.


pmid: 8219338
title: Application of a blocking enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for serological monitoring of hog cholera (classical swine fever) in Poland
abstract: Between 1990 and 1992, serum samples from 55,478 domestic swine were tested by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the presence of hog cholera virus (HCV) antibodies. The amount of antibody in the sera was expressed as the mean percentage inhibition (PI). For diagnosis, the tested sera were diluted 1:2 and considered positive if the PI was less than 25%. Sera giving PI values in the range of 25-50% were retested against HCV and bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV), by neutralising peroxidase-linked assay. Comparison of the serum titres obtained was used for serological diagnosis of hog cholera; the tested sera were considered negative for hog cholera if the titre for BVDV was higher than that obtained for HCV. All sera with a PI higher than 50% were considered negative for HCV and BVDV. All sera were found to be free of antibodies to HCV. BVDV antibodies were demonstrated in 0.40% of the sera tested in 1990, in 1.80% in 1991 and 1.06% in 1992.


pmid: 15456271
title: Synthesis of benzodithiol-2-yl-substituted nucleoside derivatives as lead compounds having anti-bovine viral diarrhea virus activity
abstract: Nucleoside derivatives having a benzodithiol-2-yl (BDT) group were synthesized and examined for their anti-bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) activities. Other substituents structurally similar to the BDT group such as 1,3-benzodioxol-2-yl, benzimidazol-2-yl and 1-oxo-benzodithiol-2-yl groups were not effective as the pharmacophore. The anti-BVDV assay revealed that 2'-O-BDT-guanosine and 2'-O-BDT-inosine had the strongest anti-BVDV activity among the nucleoside derivatives synthesized in this study. Since BVDV has been recognized as a surrogate for human hepatitis C virus (HCV), the BDT-modified nucleosides might become a new class of lead compounds to find nucleoside-type anti-HCV agents such as ribavirin.


pmid: 30456692
title: Prevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus in dairy cattle herds in eastern China
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a worldwide spreading pestivirus affecting cattle and other ruminants; however, there have been few reports on epidemiologic investigation of BVDV in eastern China. In this study, bulk tank milk from 36 herds of dairy cattle in eastern China was submitted to serological investigations, 77.8% of herds was BVDV antibody positive. Individual animal status in two herds was further investigated collecting blood samples, the positive ratio was 49.74% and 24.64%, and the average positive ratio of calves, heifers, and lactating cows was 15.94%, 40.16%, and 41.7%, respectively. Moreover, clinical survey was carried out among 8170 dairy cattle from 36 herds, for diarrhea syndrome, respiratory problems and reproductive failure, and pathogens of all clinical cattle were further investigated. The results showed that BVDV was one of the main pathogen, which infected animals combining with various other viruses. Then, nine BVDV strains were isolated; phylogenetic analysis showed that BVDV subtypes currently circulating in eastern China were BVDV 1a and BVDV 1c. In addition, out of 377 cows tested, the 1.86% detected positive to the BVDV antigen. This study provided the foundation of further study on vaccination and control strategies of BVDV in eastern China.


pmid: 20966278
title: Monitoring for bovine viral diarrhea virus in Austrian red deer (Cervus elaphus elaphus) by using ear-notch samples
abstract: During 2007-09, ear-notch samples from free-living (n=527) and farmed (n=237) Austrian red deer (Cervus elaphus elaphus) were tested for bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 (BVDV-1) and type 2 (BVDV-2) by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and single-tube real-time reverse transcription PCR. Ear-notch samples were collected by applying modified ear tags from randomly selected hunter-harvested red deer and from individuals originating from deer holdings. All samples tested negative for BVDV-1 and BVDV-2. Results of this study show no evidence of persistently infected animals. They indicate further that BVDV is playing a minor role in free-living and farmed red deer in Austria. Ear-notch samples are an effective tool for in vivo and postmortem detection of BVDV in wildlife. This sample collection technique can be easily used in combination with tagging individual wild animals kept in captivity.


pmid: 19067148
title: Regeneration and characterization of a recombinant bovine viral diarrhea virus and determination of its efficacy to cross the bovine placenta
abstract: The capacity of different bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strains to cause transplacental infection is variable. BVDV strain SD-1 was isolated from a persistently infected heifer. Its genome represents the only reported nucleotide sequence of a noncytopathic viral isolate determined without cell culture passage in the laboratory. Thus, SD-1 might possess biological advantages over other NCP BVDV strains to be used as a model virus for investigation of viral transplacental transmission. To evaluate if a molecularly generated BVDV SD-1 is capable of crossing the bovine placenta efficiently, a full-length cDNA clone of SD-1 was constructed using RT-PCR amplification and standard molecular techniques. In vitro transcripts synthesized from the cDNA template directed the generation of infectious virus in MDBK cells with a transfection efficiency as high as 4.7 x 10(5) FFU/mug RNA. The recovered virus termed ASD1 harbored five silent point mutations engineered as genetic markers and was similar to wild type (wt) SD-1 in viral growth kinetics. As evaluated in the pregnant heifers, ASD1 was capable of crossing the bovine placenta efficiently, suggesting that NCP BVDV SD-1 is a suitable viral backbone for investigation of the role of viral genetic element(s) in viral transplacental transmission by allowing for evaluation of newly created viral mutants.


pmid: 15158572
title: A model of the spread of the bovine viral-diarrhoea virus within a dairy herd
abstract: Wet BVDSim (a stochastic simulation model) was developed to study the dynamics of the spread of the bovine viral-diarrhoea virus (BVDV) within a dairy herd. This model took into account herd-management factors (common in several countries), which influence BVDV spread. BVDSim was designed as a discrete-entity and discrete-event simulation model. It relied on two processes defined at the individual-animal level, with interactions. The first process was a semi-Markov process and modelled the herd structure and dynamics (demography, herd management). The second process was a Markov process and modelled horizontal and vertical virus transmission. Because the horizontal transmission occurs by contacts (nose-to-nose) and indirectly, transmission varied with the separation of animals into subgroups. Vertical transmission resulted in birth of persistently infected (PI) calves. Other possible consequences of a BVDV infection during the pregnancy period were considered (pregnancy loss, immunity of calves). The outcomes of infection were modelled according to the stage of pregnancy at time of infection. BVDV pregnancy loss was followed either by culling or by a new artificial insemination depending on the modelled farmer's decision. Consistency of the herd dynamics in the absence of any BVDV infection was verified. To explore the model behaviour, the virus spread was simulated over 10 years after the introduction of a near-calving PI heifer into a susceptible 38 cow herd. Different dynamics of the virus spread were simulated, from early clearance to persistence of the virus 10 years after its introduction. Sensitivity of the model to the uncertainty on transmission coefficient was analysed. Qualitative validation consisted in comparing the bulk-milk ELISA results over time in a sample of herds detected with a new infection with the ones derived from simulations.


pmid: 11602770
title: Localization of viral proteins in cells infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is a member of the genus Pestivirus within the family Flaviviridae. In this report, protein localization studies were performed to assess the mechanism for the release of mature virus particles from infected cells. Since BVDV is an enveloped virus, budding from either intra- or extracellular membranes is feasible. A prerequisite for the latter mechanism is the integration of viral glycoproteins into the host cell membrane. Using monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) directed against the viral envelope glycoproteins E2 and E(RNS), no specific signals were detected on the surface of BVDV-infected cells by indirect fluorescence, confocal microscopy or fluorescence-activated cell sorter analyses. Furthermore, biotin-labelled cell surface proteins of virus-infected and non-infected cells were not detected by immunoprecipitation using MAbs directed against E(RNS) and E2 or the non-structural protein NS2-3. None of these proteins was detected on the cell surface. In addition, to analyse the intracellular localization of the two viral glycoproteins E(RNS) and E2 and the non-structural proteins NS2-3 and NS3, subcellular fractionation of virus-infected cells followed by radioimmunoprecipitation with the MAbs were performed. These results led to the conclusion that the BVDV envelope glycoproteins E(RNS) and E2 as well as the non-structural proteins NS2-3 and NS3 were almost quantitatively associated with intracellular membranes. These findings indicate that BVDV is released by budding into the cisternae of the endoplasmic reticulum and that there seems to be no correlation between the location and function of the analysed proteins.


pmid: 10068129
title: Genetic heterogeneity of porcine and ruminant pestiviruses mainly isolated in Japan
abstract: The genetic variability of porcine and ruminant pestiviruses was studied by comparative nucleotide sequence analysis of 73 isolates (42 porcine and 31 ruminant), including 65 Japanese isolates (35 porcine and 30 ruminant). The 5'-untranslated region (UTR) amplified by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was determined by direct sequencing and phylogenetic analysis was performed from the nucleotide sequence data. Most porcine isolates were divided into two major subgroups, classical swine fever virus (CSFV) subgroup 1 (CSFV-1, represented by Brecia strain) and subgroup 2 (CSFV-2, represented by Alfort strain). However, the Japanese Kanagawa/74, Okinawa/86, Okinawa/86-2 and Thai CBR/93 strains were the most distinct variants and these were assigned to another new disparate subgroup, CSFV-3 (represented by p97 strain). Most ruminant isolates were classified as the bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) genotype-I (BVDV-I) and subdivided into two subgroups, BVDV-Ia (represented by the NADL strain) and Ib (represented by the Osloss strain). Two bovine isolates (MS-1 and SY-89) and a contaminating strain (V/FLL) from an ovine cell line were classified as BVDV genotype-II (BVDV-II) on genetic characteristics. These data suggested that the detection and phylogenetic analysis of 5'-UTRs are useful for the rapid characterization of field isolates.


pmid: 9672623
title: Organ and tissue distribution of the antigen of the cytopathogenic bovine virus diarrhea virus in the early and advanced phase of experimental mucosal disease
abstract: To study the development of lesions in mucosal disease, the spread of cytopathogenic (cp) bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV) to different organs was examined in relation to the time post inoculation (pi). Mucosal disease was induced in 15 persistently viremic cattle from two herds by intranasal inoculation with antigenically similar cp BVDV strain. This strain reacted with one additional monoclonal antibody when compared to the corresponding herd-specific non cytopathogenic (ncp) isolate. Twelve cattle were euthanized at days 3, 5, 7, 9 and 13 pi in the early phase before they developed clinical signs of mucosal disease, three in the advanced phase when they were moribund and three served as controls. Antigen of the cp BVDV strains was selectively detected in tissue sections by immunohistochemistry. In the early phase, varying amounts cp BVDV were present most consistently in tonsils, lymph nodes, Peyer's patches and lymphoid nodules in the large intestine. In the lymphoid tissues, first a few cells in single lymphoid follicles, then groups of lymphoid follicles contained antigen. In intestinal epithelium, cp BVDV antigen was found focally in the early phase of mucosal disease. Its diffuse distribution in the late phase corresponded with clinical signs of diarrhea.


pmid: 20978931
title: Epidemiological observations of bovine viral diarrhea virus in Korean indigenous calves
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an important worldwide disease in the livestock industry. To date, little research has been done on BVDV circulating in the Republic of Korea (ROK). The cases outlined in our research originated from rectal swabs taken from calves up to 80 days of age. Twenty-two of 99 Korean indigenous calves with diarrhea were identified as BVDV positive and 3 different 5'-untranslated region (UTR) sequences were determined. The results indicated that BVDV infections in the ROK were found mostly in winter and when calves were less than 20 days old. Phylogenetic analysis based on the 5'-UTR revealed that our cases from Korean indigenous calves belonged to BVDV-2a. Therefore, the result of this study will be useful to understand epidemiology and allow producers in the ROK to better protect their livestock.


pmid: 17846236
title: Distribution and cellular heterogeneity of bovine viral diarrhea viral antigen expression in the brain of persistently infected calves: a new perspective
abstract: Persistent infection following in utero exposure to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) early in gestation is a serious cause of morbidity and mortality in cattle industries worldwide. The brain is a primary target of persistent infection. In the current study, the types of cells infected and topography of viral antigen expression were examined in brain sections from 9 BVDV persistently infected crossbred calves, all less than 1 year of age, by immunohistochemical staining using the 15C5 primary monoclonal antibody. BVDV antigen was detected in the brains of all persistently infected calves. A variety of cell types was infected, including neurons, astrocytes, oligodendroglia, blood vessel-associated cells (pericytes, perivascular macrophages, smooth muscle cells), and cells in the leptomeninges (blood vessel-associated cells). Conclusive demonstration of viral antigen in vascular endothelial cells was elusive. The intensity and distribution of viral antigen staining in neurons were highly variable. Viral antigen staining was most consistent and intense in thalamic nuclei, most notably in dorsal and medial nuclear groups, followed by the hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, basal nuclei, and piriform cortex. Staining in other brain areas was often less intense and inconsistent. The variability in the intensity and topography of viral antigen in the brain may explain the heterogeneity in the clinical manifestations of BVDV-induced disease. Additionally, infection of the brain in persistently infected calves may underlie or at least contribute to endocrine disturbances and immunologic deficits that are protean manifestations of BVDV-induced disease.


pmid: 17561359
title: A common neutralizing epitope on envelope glycoprotein E2 of different pestiviruses: implications for improvement of vaccines and diagnostics for classical swine fever (CSF)?
abstract: The Pestivirus genus within the family of Flaviviridae consists of at least three species; classical swine fever virus (CSFV) found in swine and wild boar, bovine viral diarrhoea virus type 1 and type 2 (BVDV-I and BVDV-II) mainly isolated from cattle and border disease virus (BDV) preferably replicating in ovine species. Many features demonstrate differences between CSFV and other pestiviruses, BVDV-I, BVDV-II and BDV, here defined as nonCSFV, whereas other features show similarities between all different species of pestiviruses. Focussing on the major envelope glycoprotein E2, the immunodominant protein of pestiviruses, CSFV seems to be a more distinct species within the Pestivirus genus. Here we confirm on one hand the more separated grouping of CSFV by isolation of monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) raised against E2 of BVDV-I and BVDV-II. None of these MAbs recognize E2 of CSFV strains. On the other hand, only one MAb, MAb 912, was isolated against E2 of BDV. MAb 912 binds to E2 of CSFV strains and partly neutralizes CSFV. The epitope of MAb 912 is mapped in antigenic domain B of CSFV-E2. This common epitope of CSFV strains and nonCSFV strains could have implications for development of DIVA vaccines and serological diagnostics for CSF.


pmid: 16169103
title: Immune responses to non-structural protein 3 (NS3) of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in NS3 DNA vaccinated and naturally infected cattle
abstract: Immune responses to non-structural protein 3 (NS3) of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) were investigated. cDNA encoding NS3 from type 1a BVDV was used to vaccinate five calves, another five calves remained unvaccinated. Three weeks after final vaccination animals were challenged intranasally with heterologous type 1a BVDV. Anti-NS3 antibodies were detected in only one animal post-vaccination. Partial protection from virus challenge was observed in the vaccinates. Virus was not isolated from nasal mucosa of two vaccinates, and virus clearance from nasal mucosa was faster in the vaccinates compared to the controls. While elevated rectal temperatures were evident in both groups 7 days post-challenge, the mean increase in the controls was twice that observed in the vaccinates. In conclusion, NS3 DNA vaccination induced humoral immunity in one calf, and prevented fever and virus establishment in the nasal mucosa in 2/5 calves, demonstrating the efficacy of NS3 vaccination, which may benefit future development of pestivirus and flavivirus vaccines.


pmid: 25849315
title: Prevalence study and genetic typing of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in four bovine species in China
abstract: To determine the nationwide status of persistent BVDV infection in different bovine species in China and compare different test methods, a total of 1379 serum samples from clinical healthy dairy cattle, beef cattle, yaks (Bos grunniens), and water buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) were collected in eight provinces of China from 2010 to 2013. The samples were analyzed using commercial antibody (Ab) and antigen (Ag) detection kits, and RT-PCR based on the 5'-UTR and Npro gene sequencing. Results showed that the overall positive rates for BVDV Ab, Ag and RT-PCR detection were 58.09% (801/1379), 1.39% (14/1010), and 22.64% (146/645), respectively, while the individual positive rates varied among regions, species, and farms. The average Ab-positive rates for dairy cattle, beef cattle, yaks, and water buffalo were 89.49% (298/333), 63.27% (248/392), 45.38% (236/520), and 14.18% (19/134), respectively, while the Ag-positive rates were 0.00% (0/116), 0.77% (3/392), 0.82% (3/368), and 5.97% (8/134), respectively, and the nucleic acid-positive rates detected by RT-PCR were 32.06% (42/131), 13.00% (26/200), 28.89% (52/180), and 19.40% (26/134), respectively. In addition, the RT-PCR products were sequenced and 124 5'-UTR sequences were obtained. Phylogenetic analysis of the 5'-UTR sequences indicated that all of the 124 BVDV-positive samples were BVDV-1 and subtyped into either BVDV-1b (33.06%), BVDV-1m (49.19%), or a new cluster, designated as BVDV-1u (17.74%). Phylogenetic analysis based on Npro sequences confirmed this novel subtype. In conclusion, this study revealed the prevalence of BVDV-1 in bovine species in China and the dominant subtypes. The high proportion of bovines with detectable viral nucleic acids in the sera, even in the presence of high Ab levels, revealed a serious threat to bovine health.


pmid: 20181385
title: Comparison of three commercial vaccines for preventing persistent infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Eighty crossbred beef heifers were randomly allocated to four groups to evaluate the efficacy of vaccination in preventing development of calves persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Group 1 (n=11) was non-vaccinated controls, whereas three groups were vaccinated with commercially available multivalent BVDV vaccines at weaning (approximately 7 mo of age), 28 d post-weaning, approximately 1 y of age, and 28 d later. Groups 2 (n=23) and 3 (n=23) were given a modified-live BVDV vaccine, whereas Group 4 was given an inactivated BVDV vaccine. Heifers were bred by AI and subsequently exposed to two bulls. At 61 d after AI, 70 heifers were pregnant (n=10 for Group 1 and n=20/group for Groups 2, 3, and 4). Three cattle persistently infected with BVDV were commingled with the pregnant heifers (in an isolated pasture) from 68 to 126 d after AI. Thereafter, viremias were detected in pregnant heifers from Groups 1, 3, and 4 (10/10, 1/20, and 10/20, respectively), but not in pregnant heifers from Group 2 (0/20). Resulting calves were assessed for persistent infection using serum PCR, ear notch antigen capture-ELISA, and immunohistochemistry. Persistently infected calves were only produced in Group 1 (10/10) and Group 4 (2/18). In conclusion, commercial vaccines provided effective fetal protection despite prolonged natural exposure to BVDV. Given that viremias were detected in 11 vaccinated heifers after BVDV exposure, and two vaccinated heifers gave birth to persistently infected calves, there is continued need for biosecurity and diagnostic surveillance, in addition to vaccination, to ensure effective BVDV control.


pmid: 14971730
title: Molecular analysis of bovine viral diarrhoea virus isolates from South Africa
abstract: The presence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in South Africa has been confirmed by several serological surveys. However, little is known about its biological properties. Twenty five isolates obtained by isolation in tissue culture and detected by means of the antigen capture ELISA from clinically sick cattle and from foetal calf serum in South Africa were characterized on the basis of analysis of the 5' non-translated (NTR) region of the genome. A reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used to amplify specific sequences from the 5'NTR of the genome. The oligonucleotide primers corresponding to positions 105-125 and 399-378, respectively, in the sequence of BVDV strain NADL were used to generate the PCR products. Both strands were sequenced directly with these primers and fluorescence-labelled dideoxynucleotides in an automated nucleic acid sequencer. Reference strains of pestiviruses [(BVDV type I, BVDV type II, border disease virus (BDV) and hog cholera virus (HCV)] and isolates from a previous investigation on BVDV in southern Africa were included for comparative purposes. All the BVDV strains obtained during this study belong to subgroups of BVDV genotype I. No association could be demonstrated between the geographic origin of the isolates. A number of isolates formed another branch separate from the existing branches Ia, Ib and Ic. These findings suggest that extensive genetic diversity can be found within BVDV type I isolates from southern Africa. Isolates that group with the classical BVDV type I strains, particularly of American origin, coexist with variants that appear to represent a local genetic pool and or variants evolving from the classical strains.


pmid: 14633195
title: Experimental infection of cows with bovine viral diarrhoea virus in early pregnancy - findings in serum and foetal fluids
abstract: Nineteen pregnant cows were experimentally infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) between day 74 and 81 of pregnancy. All cows became infected and developed serum antibodies. Sixteen of the cows delivered persistently infected (PI) offspring, whereas the remaining three gave birth to calves with detectable serum antibodies and free from BVDV. The 16 cows with PI foetuses developed higher levels of antibodies in serum during pregnancy than did their three peers carrying non-PI calves. Multivariate analysis showed that the antibody levels in these two groups of cows were significantly different from day 135 of pregnancy. Foetal fluid was successfully collected from 18 of the 19 infected cows and from five uninfected control cows between 10 and 24 days before delivery by use of a percutaneous, blind puncture technique. No negative effects were observed in the cows or their offspring. BVDV was isolated and detected with an immunoperoxidase test in foetal fluid from 13 of the 16 cows carrying PI foetuses, and from 15 of the cows when a quantitative fluorescent polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique was used. The negative sample in the PCR assay was positive for BVDV antibodies. The number of viral copies per microlitre in foetal fluids varied between 103 and 1080 in the positive samples. All samples taken from the cows carrying non-PI foetuses were negative for BVDV in both assays. In this experiment, examination of either serum or foetal fluids could identify the cows carrying a PI foetus. Examination of serum for BVDV antibodies was a reliable indicator of a PI foetus if the serum was collected during the last 2 months of pregnancy. For examination of foetal fluids, both viral and serological analyses should be performed. For viral analysis, PCR should be the test of choice. High levels of BVDV antibodies in conjunction with a negative result in the PCR may be indicative of a false-negative virus result. Further experience with the method of collection of foetal fluids is necessary for evaluation of its safety. Investigation of pregnant cows in order to discover a PI offspring before it is born could be a useful tool in control and eradication of BVDV.


pmid: 28166712
title: Experimental acute infection of alpacas with Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 subgenotype b alters peripheral blood and GALT leukocyte subsets
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a pathogen in cattle and alpacas ( Vicugna pacos), causing acute and persistent BVDV infections. We characterized the effect of acute BVDV infection on the immune system of alpacas by determining lymphocyte subpopulations in peripheral blood and gut-associated lymphoid tissues (GALT) as well as serum interferon levels. Alpacas were experimentally infected with BVDV-1b (strain CO-06). Peripheral blood leukocytes were isolated at 0, 3, 6, and 9 d postinfection (dpi), and leukocytes of GALT at 9 dpi, and evaluated using flow cytometry. Serum interferon levels were determined daily. Flow cytometric analyses of peripheral blood leukocytes showed a significant decrease in CD4+, CD8+, and αβ T-lymphocytes at 3 dpi. CD8+ lymphocytes were significantly increased, and activated lymphocytes were significantly decreased in the C3-stomach region in BVDV-infected alpacas. Serum interferon concentrations significantly increased in BVDV-infected alpacas at 3-6 dpi, peaking at 3 dpi. Our study confirms that BVDV can be a primary acute pathogen in alpacas and that it induces an interferon response and alters leukocyte subset populations. The changes in the proportion of T-lymphocytes during the early stages of BVDV infection may result in transient immunosuppression that may contribute to secondary bacterial and viral infections, similar to cattle.


pmid: 26386184
title: Construction and immunogenicity of the recombinant Lactobacillus acidophilus pMG36e-E0-LA-5 of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea/mucosal disease (BVD/MD) is an infectious disease of cattle with a worldwide distribution, creating a substantial economic impact. It is caused by bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). This research was conducted to construct the recombinant Lactobacillus acidophilus (L. acidophilus) pMG36e-E0-LA-5 of BVDV E0 gene and to test its immunogenicity and protective efficacy against BVDV infection in the mice model. The BVDV E0 gene was sub-cloned into the expression vector and then transformed into the L. acidophilus LA-5 strain by electroporation. The recombinant L. acidophilus pMG36e-E0-LA-5 was confirmed by the sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and Western blotting. The mice were immunized orally with the recombinant L. acidophilus pMG36e-E0-LA-5. The serum IgG antibody and fecal sIgA antibody responses, expression levels of interleukin (IL)-12 (IL-12) and interferon gamma (IFN-γ) were detected respectively. On the 7th day after the last-immunization, the mice were inoculated with BVDV to evaluate the protective efficiency of the recombinant L. acidophilus pMG36e-E0-LA-5. The results showed that the expressed products protein E0 in the L. acidophilus LA-5 resulted in single band of 27kDa by SDS-PAGE and its strong reactivity with BVDV antibody was confirmed by Western blotting. The IgG and sIgA antibodies responses, IL-12 and IFN-γ expression levels in the vaccinated mice with recombinant L. acidophilus pMG36e-E0-LA-5 were significantly higher than those in the control mice. The protective rate of the vaccinated mice against BVDV increased significantly, and a 90.00% protection rate in virulent challenge was observed. These results indicated that the recombinant L. acidophilus pMG36e-E0-LA-5 strain was successfully constructed and it could effectively improve the immune response in mice and might provide protection against BVDV.


pmid: 20429063
title: Parsonage-Turner syndrome associated with anti-bovine viral diarrhoea virus antibodies
abstract: The Parsonage-Turner syndrome, a rare form of neuralgic amyotrophy of unknown aetiology, was diagnosed in a patient involved in an outbreak of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). The patient, suffering from inflammation of the right shoulder with a permanent atrophy, developed anti-BVDV antibody titres which remained very high during the four following years of monitoring.


pmid: 11145272
title: Giraffe strain of pestivirus: its taxonomic status based on the 5'-untranslated region
abstract: The 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) of the 'Giraffe' strain of pestivirus was sequenced for comparison with those of other pestiviruses from cattle, sheep, goats, and swine. A phylogenetic tree constructed with these strains suggested that the 'Giraffe' strain was allocated to a new taxon. This observation was also confirmed by a newly proposed method based on palindromic nucleotide substitutions (PNS) at the three variable regions in the 5'-UTR. Other reported pestivirus strains isolated from deer were assigned as bovine viral disease virus (BVDV)-1 according to the PNS as well as phylogenetic analysis, suggesting that BVDV-1 strains can cross-infect deer as well as cattle, sheep, goats, and swine, and that wild deer may serve as a reservoir of BVDV-1. We also identified the genovar of a deer isolate, SH9/11, as BVDV-1c by the PNS method.


pmid: 2849295
title: BVD virus antigens in tissues of persistently viraemic, clinically normal cattle: implications for the pathogenesis of clinically fatal disease
abstract: The cellular events involved in precipitation of the clinically fatal outcome of an infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) remain unresolved, though it is now known that this course of the infection, Mucosal Disease (MD), only occurs in calves persistently infected with non-cytopathic BVDV. In studies aimed at elucidating the pathogenesis of MD, the distribution of BVDV antigens and infectious virus in tissues of persistently infected, clinically normal calves was investigated. Virus antigen was detected in most tissues, in epithelial and immune cells. No signs of an inflammatory response were detected and cytopathological changes were subtle or absent. The infection may nevertheless create a cell-environment which will enhance replication of cytopathic virus. Variations in the clinical, pathomorphologies and virological appearance of MD-cases may depend on both the host-reactions, including virus-induced immunopathology, and the virus-strain combinations in a putative mixed infection.


pmid: 20053823
title: Stable recombinants of bovine viral diarrhea virus containing a hepatitis C virus insert
abstract: Here we report on a segment in the genomic 3' non-translated region (3'NTR) of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) that is accessible for the insertion of foreign sequence elements such as the 5'NTR of hepatitis C virus. Recombinant viruses exhibited replication kinetics similar to those of the parental strain, and characterization of RNA species after several passages revealed that foreign inserts had the same genetic stability as the BVDV 3'NTR. The generation of such BVDV recombinants is relevant for several applications.


pmid: 1665460
title: Viral contamination of fetal bovine serum used for tissue culture: risks and concerns
abstract: Four viral contaminants have been routinely detected in unprocessed and commercial lots of fetal bovine serum: bacteriophage, infectious bovine rhinotracheitis, parainfluenza-3 and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Of those, BVDV is consistently present in a majority of commercial lots of fetal bovine serum. Methods for BVDV detection and removal are reviewed. The tentative role of an unclassified pestivirus in microcephaly of infants has been reported. Its significance remains uncertain.


pmid: 1333674
title: Recombinant polypeptide from the gp48 region of the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) detects serum antibodies in vaccinated and infected cattle
abstract: To characterize the immune response of cattle to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) glycoprotein gp48, we have produced a large amount of recombinant glutathione-s-transferase-gp48 (GST-gp48) fusion protein in Escherichia coli. Antibodies to gp48 were present in cattle vaccinated with killed or modified-live virus vaccination, or following natural infection. These results were in agreement with results of serum neutralization (SN) test which detected gp53 of BVDV.


pmid: 1656546
title: [Bovine virus diarrhea virus infections in swine]
abstract: Since 1976 nineteen naturally occurring and eight experimentally induced incidents of congenital bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infections were detected in routine laboratory diagnosis of swine fever. In nearly all naturally occurring cases, the disease was limited to one litter only. Clinical signs of disease and gross pathological lesions resembled those of chronic swine fever. Nearly all piglets born infected with the disease died within four months of birth. One pig remained persistently infected and immunotolerant until slaughtered at the age of 24 months; one of its litter mates seroconverted when six months old. In contrast, postnatal infections of pigs with BVDV strains isolated from swine ran a nearly or completely subclinical course. A serological survey of slaughter sows and boars showed that 20 per cent of the animals had antibodies against BVDV. The percentage of seropositive pigs was significantly higher on farms where cattle were present, and the percentage increased with age regardless of whether cattle were present. Sheep, pigs and humans can also transmit BVDV infections to pigs.


pmid: 2994278
title: Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for the detection of antibodies to bovine viral diarrhea virus in bovine sera
abstract: A specific and sensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was established for the detection of antibodies to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in bovine sera. Polyethylene-glycol concentrated, equilibrium density gradient purified BVDV was used as test antigen at an optimal amount of 1 microgram/well, whereas the optimal concentration of conjugate was at 1/2000 dilution. The standardized test encountered no non-specific reaction with test sera at a starting dilution of 1/10. A total of 50 bovine serum samples was assayed for the presence of antibodies against BVDV by ELISA and serum neutralization test (SNT). A positive correlation between the 2 tests was found. However, ELISA could be as much as 500-fold more sensitive than SNT in detecting low levels of BVDV antibodies.


pmid: 9510977
title: Replication of cytopathic and noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus in zona-free and zona-intact in vitro-produced bovine embryos and the effect on embryo quality
abstract: The aim of the present study was to determine whether or not cytopathic (CP) and noncytopathic (NCP) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) are able to replicate within in vitro-produced embryos and to investigate whether inoculation of embryos with BVDV affects their normal development. Zona pellucida (ZP)-free oocytes, zygotes, 8-cell-stage embryos, morulae, and hatched blastocysts (HB) were incubated for 1 h in 1 ml of Minimal Essential Medium containing 10(6.00) tissue culture infectious dose (TCID)50/ml NCP BVDV isolate 22,146 or 10(6.25) TCID50/ml CP BVDV strain Oregon C24V. At 0, 12, 24, 36, 48, 60, and 72 h postinoculation (hpi), groups of embryos were collected for virus titration. A small amount of newly produced virus was detected in 8-cell embryos at 60 hpi (10(1.8) TCID50/100 cells), but only for CP BVDV. For ZP-free morulae and HB, maximal intracellular virus titers were, respectively, 10(1.47) and 10(2.33) TCID50/100 cells at 48 hpi for the CP biotype and 10(0.64) and 10(0.84) TCID50/100 cells at 72 hpi for the NCP biotype. Only an infection with CP BVDV had a significant inhibitory effect on further development of ZP-free morulae. It can be concluded that ZP-free in vitro-produced embryos are permissive to an infection with BVDV, with increasing susceptibility of the embryos in accordance with their developmental stage. In contrast to observations in ZP-free in vitro-produced embryos, no virus replication or signs of embryonic degeneration were detected in ZP-intact in vitro-derived embryos.


pmid: 24327737
title: Distribution of lymphoid depletion and viral antigen in alpacas experimentally infected with Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1
abstract: It was hypothesized that acute postnatal Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1) infection leads to leukopenia and lymphoid depletion of gut-associated lymphoid tissues similar to acute disease in calves. The objectives of the current study were to characterize the pathologic effects, viremia, viral shedding, and viral antigen deposition in 6-24-month-old, acutely infected alpacas following experimental infection with noncytopathic BVDV-1 subgenotype 1b (BVDV C0-6). The BVDV-1 isolate was obtained from a cria with naturally occurring persistent infection. Lymphocytopenia occurred 3-7 days postinfection, with a 50% reduction in peripheral lymphocytes in infected alpacas. Depletion of B-cell populations in gut-associated lymphoid tissues was evident microscopically. Populations of T cells in parafollicular zones and in nodular aggregates along the superficial submucosa remained intact. The BVDV antigen was deposited most consistently in submucosal gastrointestinal aggregated lymphoid tissues of ileum, proximal colon, and stomach compartment three. Viral antigen was more variably evident in other lymphoid tissues. Antigen distribution correlated well with histologic lesions in gastrointestinal aggregated lymphoid tissues, confirming the role of virus in lymphoid depletion. Nasal shedding was detected in all challenged alpacas on day 6 and in 4 out of 12 challenged alpacas on day 9. Viremia was present as early as day 3, and present in all challenged alpacas on days 5, 6, 7, and 9 postchallenge. Lymphocytopenia and depletion of gastrointestinal aggregated lymphoid tissues associated with acute BVDV-1 infection likely results in immune compromise and is expected to exacerbate concurrent infections even though uncomplicated BVDV-1 infection was clinically unapparent.


pmid: 11228372
title: Microparticle-mediated RNA immunization against bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Infectious transcripts from the full-length infectious clone of the NADL strain of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were used to vaccinate cattle and sheep against BVDV. In vitro synthesized RNA delivered by microparticle bombardment with a Helios Gene Gun initiated replication of BVDV and consequently induced humoral immunity against type I BVDV (serum neutralization titers, SNT > 2(12)) and type II BVDV (SNT > 2(7)). The quality and long-term stability of the RNA-carrier complexes was assessed by microparticle bombardment of tissue culture monolayers. The RNA cartridges were found to be stable for at least 8 months upon storage. This is the first report on successful RNA vaccination of large ruminants.


pmid: 24059096
title: C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 and cytokine expressions in cows of a dairy herd with high prevalence of calves persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Animals persistently infected (PI) with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) play an important role in the spread of BVDV. Alteration of maternal C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4) expression has been suspected as closely concerned with the production of PI calves. It is not clear what the influence of CXCR4 response to the prevalence of PI calves. We have previously reported a dairy herd with high prevalence of PI calves within a short period having a single origin of infection. CXCR4 and cytokine expressions in cows of this herd were investigated. There were no significant differences in CXCR4 and cytokine expressions between the dams of PI calves and the dams of non PI calves in the herd. In the comparison among the herds, CXCR4 expressions in the PI producing herds were significantly lower than the BVDV-free herd. Moreover, CXCR4 expressions in the high prevalence herd and the low prevalence herd were similar. These findings among herds corresponded with the previously reported experimental production of persistent infection with BVDV in cows. Based on the cytokine profile of these herds, IL-10 was significantly higher in the high prevalence herd and the BVDV-free herd. The combination of low expression of CXCR4 and high expression of IL-10 might be closely concerned with some bias for the production of PI calves.


pmid: 17609346
title: Comparison of tests for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus in diagnostic samples
abstract: Currently, a variety of tests are used to detect bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in persistently infected (PI) cattle. These tests include immunohistochemical staining (IHC), antigen capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ACE), virus isolation (VI), and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). However, a lack of methods standardization could compromise the ability to consistently identify animals infected with BVDV. This study evaluated the diagnostic proficiency of current methods for detecting BVDV in infected cattle using intra- and interlaboratory comparisons. Samples were collected from 4 animals more than 7 months of age (2 BVDV negative animals, a PI animal, and a PI animal that previously lacked detectable virus in serum as determined by VI). Samples were submitted to 23 participating diagnostic laboratories using the respective laboratory's standard submission protocol. Samples collected for submission included: 1) serum for ACE, RT-PCR, and VI; 2) whole blood for RT-PCR and VI; and 3) skin biopsies for ACE and IHC. The ACE performed on skin provided the greatest consistency in detecting positive samples and a perfect level of agreement among laboratories. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and IHC performed well by correctly identifying > or = 85% of samples positive for BVDV. Virus isolation performed on serum yielded the lowest consistency in detecting positive samples and the lowest level of agreement. The level of agreement between laboratories for detecting BVDV in persistently infected cattle ranged from perfect to less than expected by chance. The variation between laboratories suggests a need for training opportunities in standardized laboratory protocols and proficiency testing.


pmid: 16963756
title: Priming with DNA encoding E2 and boosting with E2 protein formulated with CpG oligodeoxynucleotides induces strong immune responses and protection from Bovine viral diarrhea virus in cattle
abstract: The objective of this study was to develop an optimal vaccination strategy for Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). The E2 protein of BVDV plays a major protective role against BVDV infection. In order to be able to compare DNA, protein and DNA prime-protein boost regimens, a plasmid was constructed encoding a secreted form of the NADL strain E2 protein (pMASIA-tPAsDeltaE2). Furthermore, a pure secreted recombinant DeltaE2 (rDeltaE2) protein was produced. The rDeltaE2 protein was formulated with a combination of Emulsigen and CpG oligodeoxynucleotide. Groups of calves were immunized with pMASIA-tPAsDeltaE2 or with rDeltaE2, or first with pMASIA-tPAsDeltaE2 and then with rDeltaE2. To evaluate the protection against BVDV, calves were challenged with BVDV strain NY-1 after the last immunization. Although all immunized calves developed humoral and cellular immune responses, the antibody responses in the DNA prime-protein boost group were stronger than those elicited by either the DNA vaccine or the protein vaccine. In particular, E2-specific antibody titres were enhanced significantly after boosting the DeltaE2 DNA-primed calves with rDeltaE2 protein. Moreover, protection against BVDV challenge was obtained in the calves treated with the DNA prime-protein boost vaccination regimen, as shown by a significant reduction in weight loss, viral excretion and lymphopenia, compared with the unvaccinated calves and the animals immunized with the DNA or protein only. These results demonstrate the advantage of a DNA prime-protein boost vaccination approach in an outbred species.


pmid: 27535242
title: Enzyme-free amplification and detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus RNA using hybridization chain reaction and gold nanoparticles
abstract: A novel bovine viral diarrheal virus (BVDV)-RNA detection method was developed using a combination of the amplification capability of hybridization chain reaction (HCR) with the sensitivity of an unmodified-gold nanoparticle (AuNP) colorimetric detection assay. Two auxiliary probes were designed to target a conserved RNA sequence among the BVDV isolates. The complementary target BVDV-RNA was used as the initiator to trigger a cascade of hybridization events to yield nicked double-helix DNA analogous to the alternating copolymers. DNA in the form of a nicked double helix did not prevent salt-induced aggregation of AuNPs. In contrast, in the absence of the complementary target BVDV-RNA, free hairpins with single-stranded sticky ends adsorbed onto the AuNPs, stabilize them, and prevent salt-induced aggregation of the AuNP. The limit of detection (LOD) for the BVDV-RNA was estimated to be 0.008 tissue culture infective dose (TCID50)/reaction. The method developed was highly selective and specific to detect BVDV isolates in clinical samples. This protocol offers a rapid, simple, and cost-effective assay for detecting BVDV.


pmid: 22808499
title: Contamination of cell cultures with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)
abstract: The incidence of contamination of cell strains used in biological and virological studies and of fetal calf sera (FCS) manufactured by Russian and foreign companies used for cell culturing with noncytocidal bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV; Pestivirus, Flaviviridae) was analyzed. The virus was detected by reverse transcription PCR and indirect immunofluorescence with monoclonal antibodies to BVDV virion envelope glycoprotein in 25% of 117 cell strains and 45% of 35 tested FCS lots. The virus multiplied and persisted in a wide spectrum of human cell strains and in monkey, swine, sheep, rabbit, dog, cat, and other animal cells. The levels of BVDV genome RNA in contaminated cell cultures reached 10(2)-10(3) g-eq/cell and in serum samples 10(3)-10(7) g-eq/ml. These facts necessitate testing of cells and FCS for BVDV reproduced in cells without signs of infection detectable by light microscopy. The molecular mechanisms of long-term virus persistence in cells without manifestation of cell destruction are unknown.


pmid: 19153817
title: Prevalence of Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) antibodies among sheep and goats in India
abstract: The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence of pestivirus antibodies in sheep and goats in India. A total of 2803 serum samples collected between 2004 and 2008 from 1777 sheep in 92 flocks and 1026 goats in 63 flocks belonging to 13 states were tested by competition ELISA for detection of pestivirus antibodies. In sheep, the true prevalence rate was 23.4% (95% confidence interval: 22.9%-27.0%) and in goats it was 16.9% (95% CI: 16.4%-21.3%). The flock level seroprevalence was 66.3% for sheep and 54.0% for goats. Geographical variation in individual and flock prevalence was highly significant. A significant association (p < 0.05) was found between sheep and goat flocks having cattle contact and the flock level seroprevalence. The seroprevalence was lower in 6 months-1 year age group compared to the 1-2 year and >2 year age groups in both sheep and goats. Cross neutralization studies on 61 seropositive sheep and 34 seropositive goat samples representing all positive flocks, exhibited > four fold higher titre to bovine viral diarrhoea virus type 1 (BVDV-1) in 41 sheep and 23 goat samples and to BVDV-2 in one sheep and goat each. This study for the first time showed serological evidence of wide spread BVDV infections in Indian sheep and goats, with BVDV-1 predominating and BVDV-2 occasionally besides highlighting the potential risk of infection to other species, which needs to be considered whenever BVD control measures are initiated.


pmid: 16626401
title: Comparison of blood non-specific immune parameters in Bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) persistently infected and in immune heifers
abstract: Several data from different authors show that Bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) could be a key component in multiple-etiology diseases, indeed a lower leukocytes number and their impaired functions decrease the resistance to infections. However, most of the information on the impairment of immune function during BVDV infections arise from circumstantial evidence and from experimental infection studies, and few from field data. To assess the effects of BVDV on blood cells parameters, cellular and humoral functions under field conditions, we designed a controlled study in commercial dairy herds, comparing persistent infected (PI) and healthy heifers. A total of 45 heifers were considered, the PI animals were nine, the control animals were 34, while two controls were considered as acute infected animals. The comparison of the mean values in PI calves showed a significant decrease for leukocytes and granulocytes, while platelets showed a significant increase, when compared with control animals. The total number of lymphocytes decreased not significantly in PI animals, while the proportion significantly increased. The number and proportion of monocytes was significantly reduced in PI animals, when compared with controls. The data collected on markers of cellular immunity during our study cannot be compared with the literature because there are no reference values. The presence of a persistent infection affected the cellular enzymes: NAGase, lysozyme and respiratory burst showed a large statistically significant decrease in PI animals when compared with controls. The presence of a persistent infection with BVD virus influenced blood cells number and impaired some blood cell functions. Such impairment confirms that PI animals represent a threat to the herd not only because they could spread BVDV, but also because they are more susceptible to other infectious diseases.


pmid: 14599783
title: Use of an internal standard in a TaqMan nested reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction for the detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: The aim of this study was to improve molecular methods for the detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). A single-tube nested reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (nRT-PCR) employing the 5'-3'-exonuclease assay (TaqMan) system was optimised for use with bulk milk, semen and whole blood samples. An artificial template (mimic) was engineered to provide in-tube validation of negative samples by demonstrating the absence of substances inhibitory to RT or PCR. This mimic was constructed by disrupting the BVDV amplicon at the TaqMan probe site by inserting a 295bp fragment of human genomic DNA. The mimic amplicon was discriminated from the BVDV RT-PCR products using a second TaqMan probe, with a different fluorochrome specific for the inserted DNA. This new method was more sensitive than BVDV antigen ELISA methods and the existing RT-PCR method used in the laboratory for detection of BVDV in bulk milk. Furthermore, RNA extracted by robotic methods has proved suitable for use in this assay. This TaqMan nRT-PCR will be a valuable method for the detection of BVDV in a variety of biological matrices including milk and semen.


pmid: 32643274
title: Knowledge, attitudes and management of bovine viral diarrhoea virus among eastern Australian cattle producers: results from a 2013 cross-sectional study
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is an economically significant disease affecting the Australian cattle industry, with losses stemming from decreased production and reproductive performance and control costs. However, these losses can be difficult to appreciate, particularly in endemic regions. Overall, there is a variable but high herd-level seroprevalence in Australia. Despite a potentially high financial burden of the disease, the onus for control ultimately falls on producers and strategies employed will vary between regions. A cross-sectional study, using a postal survey, was conducted in 2013 to evaluate the BVDV knowledge, attitudes and management practices utilised by Australian cattle producers. A total of 192 producers participated in the study, and results indicate that knowledge and attitudes towards disease risk are variable and can be improved. Producer knowledge of how persistently infected (PI) animals are produced was higher than that of disease outcomes or transmission pathways. Implementation of biosecurity practices was limited, with approximately half of respondents employing quarantine procedures for introduced stock and only 2% indicating they would antigen test introduced stock for BVDV. Approximately a third (36%) of producers reported engaging in BVDV control, with the majority of these using vaccination strategies over deliberate exposure to a PI. Knowledge of and engagement with BVDV control was positively influenced by the producer relationships with veterinarians. Findings from this study suggest that building on education and delivering a consistent message among stakeholders would likely improve producer awareness and understanding in relation to BVDV and support decision making in BVDV management.


pmid: 19685278
title: Seroconversion to bovine viral diarrhoea virus and infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus in dairy herds of Michoacan, Mexico
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBRV) are important viral diseases around the world. The objective of this study was to estimate the incidence of seroconversion to BVDV and IBRV and to identify associated risk factors in dairy herds of Michoacan, Mexico. The longitudinal study included 62 herds and ran from December 2001 to November 2002. The total number of animals enrolled and completing the study were 392 and 342 animals for BVDV and 925 and 899 animals for IBRV. Animals were tested monthly for 12 months, for the presence of antibodies. Risk factors were: herd size (2-9, 10-25 and 26-55 animals), herd serostatus (seropositive or seronegative, only for IBRV), age group of the animal (6 to 12, 13 to 24, 25 to 48 and > 48 months) and animal origin (born in farm, purchased). The cumulative incidences for BVDV and IBRV were 16.4% and 3.4%, respectively; whereas, the incidence density rates for BVDV and IBRV were 15.9 and 2.9 per 1000 animal-months at risk, respectively. Seroconversion curves were statistically different for age group for BVDV and IBRV and for herd status for IBR. The relatively high incidence of seroconversion for BVDV suggests that a successful control programme should be oriented towards the identification and elimination of the PI animals and towards avoiding the introduction of PI cattle to the farm. The scenario of IBRV is favourable to implement a programme directed to reduce the number of new seropositive herds.


pmid: 21217023
title: Combination of reverse transcription real-time polymerase chain reaction and antigen capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for the detection of animals persistently infected with Bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an economically important pathogen of cattle. A successful control program requires early detection and removal of persistently infected (PI) animals. The objective of the current study was to develop, validate, and apply a cost-effective testing scheme for the detection of BVDV PI animals in exposed herds. Pooled samples were screened by using a real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (real-time RT-PCR), and individual positives were identified with an antigen capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ACE). The detection limits of the optimized real-time RT-PCR were 10 and 100 RNA copies per reaction for BVDV-1 and BVDV-2, respectively. The semiquantitative results of real-time RT-PCR and ACE or real-time RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry were moderately correlated. The threshold cycle of real-time RT-PCR performed on pooled samples was significantly correlated with the pool size (R(2) = 0.993). The least-cost pool sizes were 50 at a prevalence of 0.25-0.5% and 25 at a prevalence of 0.75-2.0%. By using the combined real-time RT-PCR and ACE procedure, 111 of 27,932 samples (0.4%) tested positive for BVDV. At this prevalence, cost reduction associated with the application of real-time RT-PCR and ACE ranged from 61% to 94%, compared with testing individual samples by ACE, immunohistochemistry, or real-time RT-PCR. Real-time RT-PCR screening also indicated that 92.94% of PI animals were infected with BVDV-1, 3.53% with BVDV-2, and 3.53% with both BVDV-1 and BVDV-2. Analysis of the 5'-untranslated region of 22 isolates revealed the predominance of BVDV-1b followed by BVDV-2a.


pmid: 21398437
title: A simulation model to quantify the value of implementing whole-herd Bovine viral diarrhea virus testing strategies in beef cow-calf herds
abstract: Although numerous diagnostic tests are available to identify cattle persistently infected (PI) with Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in cow-calf herds, data are sparse when evaluating the economic viability of individual tests or diagnostic strategies. Multiple factors influence BVDV testing in determining if testing should be performed and which strategy to use. A stochastic model was constructed to estimate the value of implementing various whole-herd BVDV cow-calf testing protocols. Three common BVDV tests (immunohistochemistry, antigen-capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and polymerase chain reaction) performed on skin tissue were evaluated as single- or two-test strategies. The estimated testing value was calculated for each strategy at 3 herd sizes that reflect typical farm sizes in the United States (50, 100, and 500 cows) and 3 probabilities of BVDV-positive herd status (0.077, 0.19, 0.47) based upon the literature. The economic value of testing was the difference in estimated gross revenue between simulated cow-calf herds that either did or did not apply the specific testing strategy. Beneficial economic outcomes were more frequently observed when the probability of a herd being BVDV positive was 0.47. Although the relative value ranking of many testing strategies varied by each scenario, the two-test strategy composed of immunohistochemistry had the highest estimated value in all but one herd size-herd prevalence permutation. These data indicate that the estimated value of applying BVDV whole-herd testing strategies is influenced by the selected strategy, herd size, and the probability of herd BVDV-positive status; therefore, these factors should be considered when designing optimum testing strategies for cow-calf herds.


pmid: 8592900
title: Attempt to discriminate between bovine viral-diarrhoea virus strains using polymerase chain reaction
abstract: The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was applied to detect bovine viral-diarrhoea mucosal-disease virus (BVDV). By the use of properly prepared primers, cytopathogenic NADL, Oregon C24V, Nose, T-20 and KS86-1(+) strains, and non-cytopathogenic New York-1, No. 12, and KS86-1(-) strains could be detected. The PCR system was applied to field isolates of the viruses. All the viruses were detected by the PCR. Four patterns of the PCR amplification were recognized, and it was possible to discriminate between some strains. These results corresponded with the serotype of BVDV, as determined by the serum-neutralizing test. The BVDV gene was detectable from the leucocytes of infected cattle using the PCR method. Moreover, it was possible to detect and discriminate BVDV strains using one PCR tube that included all primer pairs.


pmid: 3037765
title: Comparison by the neutralisation assay of pairs of non-cytopathogenic and cytopathogenic strains of bovine virus diarrhoea virus isolated from cases of mucosal disease
abstract: Neutralising antibody to non-cytopathogenic and cytopathogenic strains of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was assayed in a microtitre test in which cultures of calf testis cells were stained by the immunoperoxidase method to detect viral replication. Fourteen BVDV strains were compared in cross neutralisation tests with antisera prepared in gnotobiotic calves. Ten of the strains comprised five pairs of non-cytopathogenic and cytopathogenic BVDV. Each pair was isolated from an animal with mucosal disease. All five animals were from five separate outbreaks of the disease. Each pair of strains from the same outbreak was found to be antigenically indistinguishable. In contrast, when the coefficient of antigenic similarity was calculated 11 of 45 comparisons between the pairs and 46 of 91 comparisons between all 14 viruses gave R values that distinguished strains. The observations suggest that an antigenic spectrum within a single related group exists for BVDV strains, rather than distinct serotypes. The findings are also consistent with the suggestion that cytopathogenic strains from natural outbreaks of mucosal disease arise by mutation from non-cytopathogenic virus.


pmid: 17588651
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV): epidemiologic concerns relative to semen and embryos
abstract: Artificial insemination and embryo transfer are used commonly in cattle production and exchange of germplasm between populations of cattle. If properly monitored, assisted reproductive techniques can be used to prevent the spread of infectious agents. However, these techniques potentially represent unnatural routes for transmission of diseases. Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is broadly distributed among the world's populations of cattle. Fluids, gametes and somatic cells from infected animals are likely contaminated with the virus. Thus, use of semen or embryos from infected animals could result in spread of BVDV. This paper provides an overview of the risks of transmitting this virus by AI or production and transfer of embryos and summarizes the precautions needed to prevent such transmissions of disease from occurring.


pmid: 17669560
title: Compatibility of a live infectious bovine rhinotraheitis (IBR) marker vaccine and an inactivated bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) vaccine
abstract: The target animals and vaccination regimes for vaccines against the bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR) and the bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) are very similar. Therefore, we have compared different schedules for the combined use of a live IBR marker vaccine and an inactivated BVD vaccine. The neutralizing antibody response against BVDV did not reveal any differences between the group vaccinated only with the BVD vaccine and the groups that were vaccinated simultaneously (together in the same syringe) or concurrently (two separate injections) with the IBR marker vaccine at the first or second dose and the third dose of the BVD vaccine. Likewise, the bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1) neutralizing antibody titres did not exhibit any negative effect by the simultaneous or concurrent use of the two products as compared to the single IBR marker vaccination. These results indicate that the two vaccines can be applied at the same day for the first or second dose of the BVD basic vaccination and then at the booster vaccinations (third dose onwards).


pmid: 17112597
title: Leukocyte profile of cattle persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Animals acutely infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) exhibit transient immunosuppression as a result of the virus' predilection for cells that play critical roles in the host immune system. Acute BVDV infections have major effects on thymic and follicular T-lymphocytes, as well as follicular B-lymphocytes, often resulting in severe reduction in circulating numbers of lymphocytes and suppression of functional activities of these cells. Granulocytes and monocytes are equally susceptible to BVDV infections with reduction in numbers and suppression functions. However, there is limited information on the leukocyte profile of cattle persistently infected (PI) with BVDV. This study reports on phagocytic activities of granulocytes and monocytes as well as immunophenotyping by flow cytometric analysis of leukocytes isolated from healthy non-PI (NPI) and PI animals. No significant differences were found between the leukocyte profiles and the phagocytic activities of PI animals when compared to a group of healthy NPI animals.


pmid: 7559968
title: Antigenic differences between a field isolate and vaccine strains of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Antigenic diversity among the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) cytopathic strains 87-2552 (field isolate) and NADL and Singer (prototype strains) was demonstrated with monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) in enzyme-linked immunosorbent, immunofluorescence, virus neutralization, and immunoprecipitation assays. Two MAbs against BVDV strain 87-2552, designated D11 and B7, strongly neutralized this field strain and were specific for the 48-kDa glycoprotein of the virus. These two MAbs have different subisotypes, immunoglobulin G1 for D11 and immunoglobulin G3 for B7. MAbs against BVDV strains 87-2552 and NADL were specific for their respective strains in virus neutralization assays. The results indicated significant antigenic differences between BVDV strain 87-2552 and the NADL and Singer strains.


pmid: 7985352
title: Clinical consequences of a bovine virus diarrhoea virus infection in a dairy herd: a longitudinal study
abstract: The clinical consequences of infections with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) were studied in a herd of dairy cattle, where BVDV circulated for approximately 2.5 years. Of the 136 cows that were subject to a primary infection, 129 remained healthy, 5 had mild signs, and 2 became severely ill; 1 of these 2 died from a concurrent puerperal infection. In spite of the predominantly subclinical infection, a gradual decrease of 10% or more in milk production, occurring within 10 days, was observed significantly more often in cows that seroconverted than in cows that did not seroconvert over the same period. Percentages of abortion, stillbirth, and birth of weak calves were not significantly higher in cattle that seroconverted during gestation than in cattle that did not seroconvert during gestation. Abnormal return oestruses after insemination, a possible sign of early embryonic death, and congenital abnormalities were not associated with the BVDV infection. In calves that had ingested colostrum from their seropositive dams, respiratory disease ran a significantly milder course than in calves from seronegative dams. The results indicate that, in addition to the known losses associated with the birth of persistently viraemic offspring, a 'subclinical' BVDV infection in a dairy herd may also result in substantial economic losses due to decreased milk yield and more severe respiratory disease in calves.


pmid: 7496930
title: Immune response to bovine viral diarrhea virus induced by anti-idiotypic antibodies
abstract: We have previously prepared rabbit anti-idiotypic antibodies (anti-Ids) against the neutralizing monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) specific for the gp53 of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). The anti-Ids, purified by sequential immunoaffinity chromatography, inhibited the immunizing MAb from binding to the original antigens and blocked BVDV infection of cell cultures. This study evaluated immune responses in mice to the purified anti-Id reagents. BVDV-specific neutralizing antibodies were induced by the anti-Ids. The antisera (Ab3) induced by the anti-Ids immunoprecipitated gp53 from BVDV-infected Madin-Darby bovine kidney (MDBK) cell lysates. However, lymphocyte-proliferative responses were specific only for the respective immunizing antigens. These results suggest that the anti-Ids may bear an internal image of the gp53 to stimulate production of antibody but not to stimulate a virus-specific cellular immune response in mice.


pmid: 1722928
title: Anti-idiotypic antibodies mimic bovine viral diarrhea virus antigen
abstract: Polyclonal rabbit anti-idiotypic antibodies (anti-ids) against two neutralizing murine monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) specific to a bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) glycoprotein, 53 kDa, were produced, purified, and characterized. Each anti-id inhibited the binding of its respective mAb to BVDV antigen in a competitive ELISA and blocked the immunoprecipitation of the 53 kDa protein by the mAb. The anti-ids also inhibited the virus-neutralizing activity of their homologous mAbs. These results suggest that the anti-ids bear an internal image of a BVDV antigen and mimic neutralizing epitopes on the 53 kDa protein. Treatment of MDBK cells with the anti-ids inhibited BVDV infection, indicating that they block a cellular component, such as a virus receptor, required for virus adsorption or entry. Inhibition of the homologous mAb and lack of inhibition of the heterologous mAb indicate that the anti-ids are specific for the unique antigen-binding sites on the mAbs.


pmid: 19781869
title: Antigenic and genetic characterisation of border disease viruses isolated from UK cattle
abstract: Available empirical data on the natural occurrence of ruminant pestiviruses has shown that in cattle, bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is nearly exclusively found, whereas both border disease virus (BDV) and BVDV can be isolated from sheep. During routine genetic typing of pestivirus RNA from UK cattle diagnosed as BVDV positive between 2006 and 2008, five samples that were classified as BDV positive yielded positive virus isolates in cell cultures. The samples originated from animals that had shown signs typical for BVD. Phylogenetic analysis of the bovine BDVs showed that two belonged to the BDV-1a group and three to the BDV-1b group, thereby matching the genetic diversity seen for previously described UK ovine BDVs. Antigenic typing with a set of monoclonal antibodies (MABs) showed that all bovine BDVs lacked one or more epitopes conserved among ovine BDV-1 isolates, and that they had gained reactivity with at least one BVDV-1 specific MAB. Serial passaging of two of the virus isolates in ovine cell cultures did not change the epitope expression pattern. These findings suggest that the presumed natural resistance of cattle against infection with BDV no longer holds. A consequence of this is that BVD diagnostic assays should be checked for their ability to also detect BDV, and also highlights the need for monitoring of the BDV status in sheep that may be in contact with cattle in areas with organised BVD control programmes.


pmid: 19112114
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus abortion in goats housed with persistently infected cattle
abstract: Twenty-four border disease virus-seronegative, pregnant, mixed breed goats were experimentally comingled with 3 heifers persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus type 2a (BVDV-2a). Twelve of the 24 exposed does aborted. Twenty-nine fetuses and 16 placentas from affected does were submitted to the Oklahoma Animal Disease Diagnostic Laboratory for a necropsy examination. Infection with BVDV was confirmed with a combination of immunohistochemistry, BVDV-2 polymerase chain reaction, and virus isolation in 19 of the 29 fetuses. On gross examination of the 19 fetuses and placentas in which BVDV-2a infection was confirmed, a mild placentitis (3/19), fetal mummification (1/19), and facial deformities (4/19) were noted. Histologically, placentitis (2/19), myocarditis (4/19), thymic depletion (5/19), choroid plexitis (3/19), encephalitis (2/19), and cerebral gliosis (1/19) were noted. Other causes of abortion in goats, including common bacterial and viral infections, were ruled out with histology, virus isolation, polymerase chain reaction, and aerobic bacteriologic cultures. As supported by the findings in this case, BVDV-2a should be included as a differential for abortion in goats. This is the first report of abortion in goats after exposure to persistently infected cattle.


pmid: 33933916
title: Prevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus antibodies and risk factors in dairy cattle in Gondar city, Northwest Ethiopia
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) is a disease that affects cattle and other ruminants worldwide and causes considerable economic losses. A cross-sectional study was carried out between December 2017 and July 2018 with the aim to estimate the prevalence of Bovine Viral Diarrhea virus (BVDV) antibodies and to identify potential risk factors associated with the occurrence of the disease in dairy cattle in peri-urban areas of Gondar city, Northwest Ethiopia. A total of 339 serum samples obtained from randomly selected dairy cattle aged 6 months and older were assayed using a BVDV antibody competitive-Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay (c-ELISA) kit. Descriptive statistics were used to estimate antibody prevalence of BVDV at animal and herd-level and logistic regression was used to identify potential risk factors. The study findings showed that the animal-level antibody prevalence of BVDV in the study area was 26.84 % (95 % CI: 22.1 %-31.6 %) and the herd-level seroprevalence was 68.3 % (95 % CI: 56.2 %-80.4 %). Logistic regression model demonstrated that age >2 years (OR = 4.75, 95 % CI: 2.20-10.26), herd size >11 (OR = 7.28, 95 % CI: 2.50-21.22), and poor farm hygiene (OR = 3.69, 95 % CI: 1.94-7.02), are potential risk factors associated with BVDV infection (P < 0.05). However, sex, faecal consistency and housing system were not associated with BVDV serostatus. The animal- and herd-level seroprevalence reports in Northwest Ethiopia can serve as a baseline finding for future BVD epidemiological investigations and to inform future control programs in the study region.


pmid: 32745776
title: Modelling the economics of bovine viral diarrhoea virus control in pastoral dairy and beef cattle herds
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is a prevalent pathogen in the New Zealand cattle industries, yet few studies to date have evaluated the economics of BVDV in pastoral dairy and beef herds to help inform management decisions. To address this knowledge gap, we developed stochastic individual-based simulation models to represent the transmission dynamics of BVDV in typical spring-calving dairy and beef farms in New Zealand. The models conservatively estimated the direct losses due to a BVDV outbreak at NZ$ 22.22 and NZ$ 41.19 per mixed-age cow per year for a naïve dairy and beef farm, respectively, over a 5-year period. The greatest economic impacts for the dairy farm occurred when persistently infected replacement heifers joined the lactating cow group and caused transient infection of cows to drop in milk production, whereas the greatest impacts for the beef farm was through the loss of fattening stock for sale due to lowered pregnancy rates. Various combinations of diagnostic testing, vaccination, and biosecurity measures were then explored to evaluate the cost-efficiency of different strategies for controlling BVDV at the farm-level. Providing farmers with the estimates of economic impacts of BVDV in their herds may further encourage the uptake of control measures, but close collaboration with a veterinarian to determine the optimal strategy for their unique farm circumstances is still required.


pmid: 16597470
title: A prospective study of the effect of Neospora caninum and BVDV infections on bovine abortions in a dairy herd in Arequipa, Peru
abstract: We used a prospective seroepidemiological approach to investigate endemic abortion in a dairy herd in Arequipa, Peru, and its association with Neospora caninum and bovine viral-diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infections. Between January 2002 and March 2004, 1094 pregnancies were confirmed in 538 cows. Of these, 137 pregnancies (13%) in 121 cows ended in abortion. The serological status to N. caninum was assessed using a single serological screening, whereas BVDV status was assessed at the herd level through consecutive samplings of young stock. Cox proportional-hazards models were used to estimate the effect of N. caninum and BVDV on the hazard of early (between day 42 and day 100 in gestation), and late (after day 100) abortions, respectively. Serological status to N. caninum was included as a dichotomous variable, and the effect of BVDV estimated at the herd level, as a time-dependent seasonal effect. Because data from repeated pregnancies were included, we considered possible lack of independence between observations and included frailty effects into the models. Our models also considered the possible confounding by parity and animal origin. Only multiparity was associated with the hazard of early abortion (HR=2.8 compared to nulliparous heifers). N. caninum seropositivity significantly affected the hazard of late abortion, but interacted with parity. The HRs for Neospora-positive animals were 6.4, 3.7 and 1.9, respectively, for nulliparous heifers, first-lactation cows and multiparous cows. Evidence of BVDV circulating (or not) among the young stock was not associated with abortions, but few cows in this herd were susceptible to incident infection.


pmid: 11137119
title: Interferon-gamma and interleukin-4 mRNA expression by peripheral blood mononuclear cells from pregnant and non-pregnant cattle seropositive for bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The acceptance of the fetal allograft by pregnant women and mice seems to be associated with a shift from a Th 1 dominated to a Th 2 dominated immune response to certain infectious agents. The goal of this study was to examine cytokine expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from cattle immune to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) to determine whether pregnancy also has an influence on the type of immune response in this species. Forty-six heifers and cows between 14 months and 13 years of age were included in this study. Twenty-four were seropositive and 22 seronegative for BVDV. Eleven of the seropositive animals and 11 of the seronegative animals were in the eighth month of gestation, the remaining animals were virgin heifers. PBMC from these animals were analyzed for Interferon (IFN)-gamma and Interleukin (IL)-4 mRNA expression by real-time RT-PCR after stimulation with a non-cytopathic strain of BVDV. Additionally, an ELISA was performed to measure IFN-gamma in the supernatants of stimulated cell cultures. In BVDV seropositive animals, IFN-gamma mRNA levels were significantly higher than in BVDV seronegative animals and there was a significant positive correlation between the changes in IFN-gamma and IL-4 mRNA expression. There was, however, no significant difference in IFN-gamma and IL-4 mRNA levels between pregnant and non-pregnant animals. These results are inconsistent with BVDV inducing a Th1 or Th2 biased immune response. Furthermore, a shift in the cytokine pattern during bovine pregnancy was not evident.


pmid: 9526859
title: Evaluation of a single dilution ELISA system for detection of seroconversion to bovine viral diarrhea virus, bovine respiratory syncytial virus, parainfluenza-3 virus, and infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus: comparison with testing by virus neutralization and hemagglutination inhibition
abstract: A single-dilution quantitative enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) system, based on commercial ELISA kits, for the simultaneous detection of seroconversion to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), parainfluenza-3 virus (PI3V), and infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBRV) was evaluated by testing acute and convalescent serum pairs from 564 cattle in 145 outbreaks of respiratory disease. Seroconversion to BVDV, BRSV, PI3V and IBRV was detected in 8.0%, 19.0%, 13.7%, and 7.4%, respectively, of serum pairs tested. Seroconversion was detected in 60.7% of herds and 34.6% of animals tested. Infection with 2 or more viruses was found in 46.6% of these herds and in 27.2% of these animals. The majority of BVDV infections (62%) were associated with other virus infections, suggesting that BVDV may potentiate infection with other agents rather than being a primary pathogen of the respiratory tract. The results were compared with those obtained by virus neutralization and hemagglutination inhibition testing, and the sensitivity, specificity, and overall correlation were calculated. Sensitivities of 92%, 95%, 100%, and 100% were obtained for BVDV, BRSV, PI3V, and IBRV, respectively. The corresponding specificity values were 89%, 92%, 86%, and 91%. The overall correlation for each virus was 90%, 93%, 90%, and 93%, respectively. These results demonstrate that this ELISA system may be used successfully to detect seroconversion in serum pairs, highlight the frequency of multiple viral infections in outbreaks of respiratory disease, and provide further evidence of an immunosuppressive role for BVDV infections.


pmid: 33933916
title: Prevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus antibodies and risk factors in dairy cattle in Gondar city, Northwest Ethiopia
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) is a disease that affects cattle and other ruminants worldwide and causes considerable economic losses. A cross-sectional study was carried out between December 2017 and July 2018 with the aim to estimate the prevalence of Bovine Viral Diarrhea virus (BVDV) antibodies and to identify potential risk factors associated with the occurrence of the disease in dairy cattle in peri-urban areas of Gondar city, Northwest Ethiopia. A total of 339 serum samples obtained from randomly selected dairy cattle aged 6 months and older were assayed using a BVDV antibody competitive-Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay (c-ELISA) kit. Descriptive statistics were used to estimate antibody prevalence of BVDV at animal and herd-level and logistic regression was used to identify potential risk factors. The study findings showed that the animal-level antibody prevalence of BVDV in the study area was 26.84 % (95 % CI: 22.1 %-31.6 %) and the herd-level seroprevalence was 68.3 % (95 % CI: 56.2 %-80.4 %). Logistic regression model demonstrated that age >2 years (OR = 4.75, 95 % CI: 2.20-10.26), herd size >11 (OR = 7.28, 95 % CI: 2.50-21.22), and poor farm hygiene (OR = 3.69, 95 % CI: 1.94-7.02), are potential risk factors associated with BVDV infection (P < 0.05). However, sex, faecal consistency and housing system were not associated with BVDV serostatus. The animal- and herd-level seroprevalence reports in Northwest Ethiopia can serve as a baseline finding for future BVD epidemiological investigations and to inform future control programs in the study region.


pmid: 16597470
title: A prospective study of the effect of Neospora caninum and BVDV infections on bovine abortions in a dairy herd in Arequipa, Peru
abstract: We used a prospective seroepidemiological approach to investigate endemic abortion in a dairy herd in Arequipa, Peru, and its association with Neospora caninum and bovine viral-diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infections. Between January 2002 and March 2004, 1094 pregnancies were confirmed in 538 cows. Of these, 137 pregnancies (13%) in 121 cows ended in abortion. The serological status to N. caninum was assessed using a single serological screening, whereas BVDV status was assessed at the herd level through consecutive samplings of young stock. Cox proportional-hazards models were used to estimate the effect of N. caninum and BVDV on the hazard of early (between day 42 and day 100 in gestation), and late (after day 100) abortions, respectively. Serological status to N. caninum was included as a dichotomous variable, and the effect of BVDV estimated at the herd level, as a time-dependent seasonal effect. Because data from repeated pregnancies were included, we considered possible lack of independence between observations and included frailty effects into the models. Our models also considered the possible confounding by parity and animal origin. Only multiparity was associated with the hazard of early abortion (HR=2.8 compared to nulliparous heifers). N. caninum seropositivity significantly affected the hazard of late abortion, but interacted with parity. The HRs for Neospora-positive animals were 6.4, 3.7 and 1.9, respectively, for nulliparous heifers, first-lactation cows and multiparous cows. Evidence of BVDV circulating (or not) among the young stock was not associated with abortions, but few cows in this herd were susceptible to incident infection.


pmid: 27878974
title: Evidence for Circulation of Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus Type 2c in Ruminants in Southern Italy
abstract: Recently, bovine viral diarrhoea virus type 2c (BVDV-2c) was responsible for a severe outbreak in cattle in northern Europe. Here, we present the results of an epidemiological survey for pestiviruses in ruminants in southern Italy. Pooled serum samples were obtained from 997 bovine, 800 ovine, 431 caprine and eight bubaline farms, and pestiviral RNA was detected by molecular methods in 44 farms consisting of 16 cattle and one buffalo herds and of 21 sheep and six goat flocks. Twenty-nine and 15 farms were infected by BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 strains, respectively. BVDV-1 strains were recovered mainly from cattle and were heterogeneous, belonging to the subtypes 1b, 1u, 1e, 1g and 1h. In contrast, all BVDV-2 viruses but two were detected in sheep or goats and were characterized as BVDV-2c by sequence analysis of 5'UTR. These strains displayed high genetic identity to BVDV-2c circulating in cattle in northern Europe and were more distantly related to a BVDV-2c isolate recovered from a cattle herd in southern Italy more than 10 years before. The circulation of a BVDV-2c in small ruminants suggests the need for a continuous surveillance for the emergence of pestivirus-induced clinical signs in southern Italian farms.


pmid: 23697572
title: A multiepitope fusion antigen elicits neutralizing antibodies against enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli and homologous bovine viral diarrhea virus in vitro
abstract: Diarrhea is one of the most important bovine diseases. Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) are the major causes of diarrhea in calves and cattle. ETEC expressing K99 (F5) fimbriae and heat-stable type Ia (STa) toxin are the leading bacteria causing calf diarrhea, and BVDV causes diarrhea and other clinical illnesses in cattle of all ages. It is reported that maternal immunization with K99 fimbrial antigens provides passive protection to calves against K99 fimbrial ETEC and that BVDV major structural protein E2 elicits antibodies neutralizing against BVDV viral infection. Vaccines inducing anti-K99 and anti-STa immunity would protect calves more effectively against ETEC diarrhea, and those also inducing anti-E2 neutralizing antibodies would protect calves and cattle against diarrhea caused by both ETEC and BVDV. In this study, we used the ETEC K99 major subunit FanC as a backbone, genetically embedded the STa toxoid STaP12F and the most-antigenic B-cell epitope and T-cell epitope predicted from the BVDV E2 glycoprotein into FanC for the multivalent antigen FanC-STa-E2, and examined immunogenicity of this multivalent antigen to assess vaccine potential against bovine diarrhea. Mice intraperitoneally (i.p.) immunized with this multivalent antigen developed anti-K99, anti-STa, and anti-BVDV antibodies. Moreover, elicited antibodies showed neutralization activities, as they inhibited adherence of K99 fimbrial E. coli, neutralized STa toxin, and prevented homologous BVDV viral infection in vitro. Results from this study suggest that this multiepitope fusion antigen can potentially be developed as a vaccine for broad protection against bovine diarrhea and that the multiepitope fusion strategy may be generally applied for multivalent vaccine development against heterogeneous pathogens.


pmid: 17306889
title: Impairment of innate immune responses of airway epithelium by infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection is an important risk factor for development of shipping fever pneumonia in feedlot cattle, and infects but does not cause morphologic evidence of damage to airway epithelial cells. We hypothesized that BVDV predisposes to bacterial pneumonia by impairing innate immune responses in airway epithelial cells. Primary cultures of bovine tracheal epithelial cells were infected with BVDV for 48 h, then stimulated with LPS for 16 h. Expression of tracheal antimicrobial peptide (TAP) and lingual antimicrobial peptide (LAP) mRNA was measured by quantitative RT-PCR, and lactoferrin concentrations were measured in culture supernatant by ELISA. BVDV infection had no detectable effect on the constitutive expression of TAP and LAP mRNA or lactoferrin concentration in culture supernatant. LPS treatment provoked a significant increase in TAP mRNA expression and lactoferrin concentration in the culture supernatant (p<0.01), and these effects were significantly (p<0.02, p<0.01) abrogated by prior infection of the tracheal epithelial cells with the type 2 ncp-BVDV isolate. In contrast, infection with the type 1 ncp-BVDV isolate had no effect on TAP mRNA expression or lactoferrin secretion. LPS treatment induced a significant (p<0.001) upregulation of LAP mRNA expression, which was not significantly affected by prior infection with BVDV. These data indicate that infection with a type 2 BVDV isolate inhibits the LPS-induced upregulation of TAP mRNA expression and lactoferrin secretion by tracheal epithelial cells, suggesting a novel mechanism by which this virus abrogates respiratory innate immune responses and predisposes to bacterial pneumonia in cattle.


pmid: 1335258
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus-specific neutralizing antibodies induced by anti-idiotypic antibodies
abstract: Two murine neutralizing monoclonal antibodies (MAbs), 4D8 and 6D11, recognizing epitopes on gp53, a surface glycoprotein of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), were used to generate anti-idiotypic antibodies (anti-ids) in a calf. The polyclonal anti-ids were isolated from serum by affinity chromatography on their respective Ab-1-Sepharose columns, followed by repeated adsorption on isotype-matched antibody-Sepharose columns. The anti-ids reacted specifically with their respective Ab-1, but not with isotype-matched controls. They also inhibited the binding of their Ab-1 to BVDV in a concentration-dependent manner. Mice immunized with the two anti-id preparations developed antibodies to BVDV, which neutralized the virus in vitro.


pmid: 9210933
title: Clinical and virological observations of a mucosal disease outbreak with persistently-infected seropositive survivors
abstract: A group of 14 four to nine month old calves, clinically healthy but persistently infected with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV), was obtained from a single farm, and reared as a group. Ten of them were male and were castrated soon after arrival. Signs of mucosal disease (MD) developed within a month and eight of the males had died or been killed on humane grounds by 2 months after purchase. The other two males and one of the females developed more chronic but progressive signs of MD and were killed during the next four months. The remaining three females showed only transient signs of MD followed by clinical recovery. They subsequently remained healthy up to slaughter at 2, 2.5 and 5 years respectively. These three survivors were persistently infected with BVDV, and shed virus in their mucous secretions, although two of them were also seropositive to the virus with fluctuating neutralizing antibody titres (at times as high as 1/960) to a range of BVDV strains including their own persisting virus.


pmid: 4265558
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus in swine: neutralizing antibody in naturally and experimentally infected swine
abstract: Neutralizing antibodies against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were detected in sera of Iowa farm sows, their piglets derived by hysterectomy and in specific-pathogen-free (SPF) pigs in a closed herd. No antibodies against BVDV were detected in sera of 134 fetal pigs from 67 sows in an Iowa slaughter-house. Neutralizing antibodies against BVDV or hog cholera virus, produced experimentally in SPF pigs, were demonstrated to be due to different antigens rather than to a common antigen, although slight cross-neutralization reactions sometimes occur.


pmid: 18289862
title: Gamma-carboline derivatives with anti-bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) activity
abstract: Based on anti-viral screening of our heteroaromatics derived from thalidomide, the gamma-carboline skeleton has been identified as a superior scaffold structure for compounds with potent anti-bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) activity. Structural development studies led to a potent anti-viral agent, SK5M (5-methyl-gamma-carboline), with the EC(50) of 0.26 microM.


pmid: 24789852
title: Risk factors associated with high bulk milk antibody levels to common pathogens in UK dairies
abstract: Infectious diseases pose a severe economic burden on the UK dairy industry. This study used bulk milk antibody levels in 1088 UK dairy herds to estimate the current UK prevalence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), bovine herpes virus 1 (BHV-1) and Leptospira hardjo. Questionnaires collected under the DairyCheck scheme (MSD Animal Health) were used concurrently to gather information on farm demographics and management practices. The prevalence of active BVDV infection was 58.6 per cent, of historic BVDV exposure was 88.6 per cent, of BHV-1 infection was 69.2 per cent and of L hardjo was 71.9 per cent. An increasing herd size and the purchasing of replacement cattle were risk factors for the presence of all three agents. Year-round calving was associated with a 1.9 times increased risk for having BVDV (P<0.005). The presence of a bull was associated with a 1.5 times increased risk for having BHV-1 (P<0.005). When compared with previous results, this study indicates a slight fall in the prevalence of BVDV within the UK dairy herd; however, BHV-1 and L hardjo levels appear to have remained constant. This study shows that herds purchasing cattle are at greater risk of infectious agents being present and therefore, if possible, a closed herd system should be implemented.


pmid: 20304508
title: A stochastic risk-analysis model for the spread of bovine viral diarrhea virus after introduction to naïve cow-calf herds
abstract: A stochastic SIR model was developed to simulate the spread of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) through a cow-calf herd and estimate the effect of the virus on the herd, including abortions, calf morbidity, and calf mortality. The model was applied with three herd sizes (400, 100, and 50 head) and four control strategies (no intervention, vaccination of breeding stock, testing all calves pre-breeding and culling of persistently infected calves, and both vaccination of adults and testing and culling of calves). When no control strategy was implemented the BVDV reproductive rate (R(E-PI)) of persistently infected calves (PI's), vertical transmission rate from cows to calves and the mortality rate of PI's were influential in the number of PI's produced in the herd. When a vaccination program alone was implemented the vaccine efficacy was influential in the number of PI's produced in the herd. All control strategies decreased the effects of BVDV on the herd at both 1 and 10 years compared to no control. In most cases the combination of adult vaccination and calf testing and culling resulted in the largest decrease in the both the median and 95% prediction interval for the range of effects from BVDV. The effect of control strategies was most apparent in the 400 head herds. All control strategies increased the probability of early clearance of PI's from the herd for all herd sizes. Fifty and 100 head herds cleared infection by 4 and 9 years respectively even without a control program but 400 head herds did not always clear infection after 10 years unless a testing program was implemented. The model presented is valuable in assessing the effect of control strategies and the effects of disease parameters on BVDV spread in beef herds.


pmid: 12001336
title: The associations of viral and mycoplasmal antibody titers with respiratory disease and weight gain in feedlot calves
abstract: Blood samples from 32 groups of calves (n = 700) were taken on arrival and after 28-35 days at the feedlot. Eleven groups were housed in feedlots in Ontario, and 21 groups in feedlots in Alberta. Serum antibody titers to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), parainfluenza virus type 3 (PIV-3), infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBRV), Mycoplasma dispar and M. bovis, plus data on bovine corona virus (BCV) from a previous study were investigated for their association with the risk of bovine respiratory disease (BRD), and with 28-day weight change, both before and after controlling for titers to Pasteurella haemolytica and Haemophilus somnus. Exposure to IBRV and M. bovis was infrequent, and although exposure to PIV-3 was more common, none of these agents had important associations with BRD. Higher titers to BVDV, BRSV, and BCV on arrival were associated with reduced risks of BRD and increased weight gains. However, there was some variation in these relationships and higher arrival titers to BVDV and BRSV in a subset of the calves were associated with increased risks of BRD. Titer increases to BVDV were associated with a higher risk of BRD and lower weight gains. Titer increases to BRSV were not usually associated with the occurrence of BRD, but titer increases to BRSV in a subset of calves that were vaccinated against BRSV, on arrival, were associated with an elevated risk of BRD. Of all the agents studied, BVDV had the most consistent associations with elevated risk of BRD and lower weight gains. Higher BRSV arrival titers were related to lower risk of BRD and higher weight gains; in some instances titer increases to BRSV were associated with higher BRD risk. Higher titers to BCV on arrival were related to reduced risks of BRD. Practical ways of adequately preventing the negative effects of these agents are still needed.


pmid: 11844617
title: Expression of the mouse Fc receptor B2 in bovine cells rescues the infectivity of conditionally neutralized bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: We examined the infectivity of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) particles opsonized with monoclonal antibodies on bovine cells expressing the murine Fcgamma receptor B2 (FcgammaRB2). Incubation of BVDV with each of five monoclonal antibodies (Mabs) to the envelope glycoprotein E2 led to efficient virus-neutralization, as evidenced by the failure to infect standard bovine testicle cells. In contrast, inoculation of four of these Mab-virus complexes onto transfectant bovine testicle cells expressing FcgammaRB2 resulted in a significant rescue of virus infectivity. Mab-virus complexes were 13.1, 7.37, 5.56 and 4.49 times more infectious for FcgammaR-expressing cells than for cells lacking FcgammaR. Because Mab-opsonized BVDV virion complexes uninfectious for standard cells may initiate productive infection in cells expressing the FcgammaR, the virion-Mab interaction should be described as a conditional neutralization. Interestingly, the infectivity of BVDV complexed with a specific virus neutralizing Mab (10f9) could not be rescued in FcgammaRB2-expressing cells. We postulate that attachment of antibody-virus complexes to FcR may only result in productive infection if the binding of antibody to virions does not interfere with post-attachment entry functions. Conditionally neutralized virions may play a role in the pathogenesis of any of the multiple diseases resulting from BVDV infections in cattle.


pmid: 10799055
title: Evaluation of vaccines, interferons and cell substrates for pestivirus contamination
abstract: Pestiviruses are potential contaminants of biological products produced in bovine or porcine cells or manufactured via processes using animal-derived raw materials such as bovine serum. In order to investigate possible contamination of products including those manufactured and/or licensed in the US, 38 lots of viral vaccines and five lots of interferon alpha (IFNalpha) were tested by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for the presence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). All vaccines and interferons were negative for contaminating BVDV RNA when tested by RT-PCR, with the exception of an experimental live viral vaccine that had been produced in BVDV contaminated rabbit kidney cells. Cell lines commonly used to produce biological products and vaccines were experimentally infected with the NADL strain of BVDV to determine if they were permissive for virus replication. MRC-5 and WI-38 cells were not infected. In contrast, Vero, CHO and CEF cells showed evidence of pestivirus infection. Taken together these data suggested that currently licensed viral vaccines were unlikely to be contaminated with pestiviruses. However, cell banks derived from non-human primate, hamster or rabbit kidney cell lines, or cultures of primary chick embryo fibroblasts, may be infected with BVDV if exposed to pestivirus contaminated raw materials during manufacture.


pmid: 9557702
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus strain Oregon: a novel mechanism for processing of NS2-3 based on point mutations
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolates can either be cytopathogenic (cp) or noncytopathogenic (noncp). While both biotypes express the nonstructural protein NS2-3, generation of NS3 strictly correlates with the cp phenotype. The production of NS3 is usually caused by cp specific genome alterations, which were found to be due to RNA recombination. Molecular analyses of the cp BVDV strain Oregon revealed that it does not possess such genome alterations but nevertheless is able to generate NS3 via processing of NS2-3. The NS3 serine protease is not involved in this cleavage, which, according to protein sequencing, occurs between amino acids 1589 and 1590 of the BVDV Oregon polyprotein. Transient-expression studies indicated that important information for the cleavage of NS2-3 is located within NS2. This was verified by expression of chimeric constructs containing cDNA fragments derived from BVDV Oregon and a noncp BVDV. It could be shown that the C-terminal part of NS2 plays a crucial role in NS2-3 cleavage. These data, together with results obtained by site-specific exchanges in this region, revealed a new mechanism for NS2-3 processing which is based on point mutations within NS2.


pmid: 23019244
title: The occurrence of Bovine viral diarrhea virus in hunter-harvested white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in the state of Georgia, southeastern United States
abstract: The prevalence of Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in free-ranging white-tailed deer (WTD, Odocoileus virginianus) in the state of Georgia was evaluated using ear notches collected from hunter-harvested deer during the hunting season of 2010-2011. From September to December 2010, 367 ear samples from WTD were collected from 37 counties in Georgia. The samples were from 178 (48.5%) female deer, 187 (51%) male deer, and 2 (0.5%) of unknown sex. The age of the animals varied from 6 months to 6.5 years. The age was not recorded in 34 animals (9.3%). Of the animals with known ages, 42% were under 2 years. Screening of 367 samples for BVDV using an antigen-capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (AgELISA) resulted in 364 negative samples and 3 suspect samples. The 3 suspect samples were negative for BVDV reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), virus isolation, and immunohistochemistry. A subpopulation of samples (n = 89) selected from various geographical regions also tested negative for BVDV RT-PCR. In conclusion, although a few of the samples were suspect for the presence of BVDV by AgELISA, the presence of the virus within the deer population studied could not be confirmed further.


pmid: 21875618
title: Development of an indirect immunofluorescence assay for diagnosis of bovine viral diarrhoea virus on ear notch tissue samples in cattle infected persistently
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) causes a disease that has a wide range of clinical symptoms in domestic and wild ruminants. It is a major problem in cattle and causes significant economic losses in the cattle industry. The virus infects bovines of all ages and causes both immunosuppression and reproductive, respiratory and digestive disorders. Cattle infected persistently, as a continuing source of the virus and the main factor in transmission of the disease between and among herds, are the main source of BVDV and a primary factor in the epidemiology of the disease. To determine whether a BVDV infection is persistent, two samples should be taken at 3-4 week intervals and tested for the virus antigen. Animal sera, whole blood, organ and ear notch tissue samples can be used for BVDV diagnosis. In ear notch tissue, viral antigen can be detected by an antigen enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (antigen ELISA), immunohistochemistry (IHC) and reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). This paper describes the development and implementation of an indirect immunofluorescence (IF) method using ear notch tissue samples for diagnosis of cattle infected persistently. Results obtained by this method show that IF is a good alternative to RT-PCR and antigen ELISA and can be a quick and accurate method in diagnosis of BVDV in cattle infected persistently with this virus.


pmid: 19793904
title: Expression of the NS3 protease of cytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus results in the induction of apoptosis but does not block activation of the beta interferon promoter
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV; genus Pestivirus) can exist as two biotypes, cytopathogenic (CP) and non-cytopathogenic (NCP). The CP form differs from NCP by the continual expression of free non-structural protein 3 (NS3). CP BVDV infection of cultured cells induces apoptosis, whereas NCP BVDV infection has been reported to block the induction of beta interferon (IFN-beta). To investigate the viral mechanisms underlying these effects, NS3 or NS2-3 proteins of NCP and CP BVDV biotypes, together with the cognate NS3 co-factor NS4A, were expressed in cells, and their effect on apoptosis and induction of IFN-beta was investigated. Expression of NS3/4A resulted in increased activity of caspase-9 and caspase-3, indicating induction of the intrinsic apoptosis pathway. Mutational analysis revealed that a protease-inactive NS3/4A was unable to induce apoptosis, suggesting that NS3 protease activity is required for initiation of apoptosis during CP BVDV infection. The ability of NS2-3 to modulate activation of the IFN-beta promoter was also investigated. These studies confirmed that, unlike the related hepatitis C virus and GB virus-B, BVDV proteases are unable to inhibit TLR3- and RIG-I-dependent activation of the IFN-beta promoter. These data suggest that BVDV NS3/4A is responsible for regulating the levels of cellular apoptosis and provide new insights regarding the viral elements associated with CP biotype pathogenesis.


pmid: 11042412
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus: its effects on ovarian function in the cow
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is a major cattle pathogen responsible for a spectrum of symptoms, including reproductive failure. In this paper we investigate how BVDV interacts with the ovary. The viruses' tropism for the pre-ovulatory oocyte was studied by indirect immunohistochemistry. Two monoclonal antibodies, raised against the non-structural protein NS3 and the envelope glycoprotein E2 were used to probe cryo-sections cut from the ovaries of three persistently infected heifers. NS3 and E2 antigens were widely distributed within the ovarian stroma and follicular cells. NS3 was also localised within the proportion of oocytes. Overall 18.7% of the oocyte population had detectable levels of NS3. What is more, the proportion of antigen positive oocytes remained constant (P>0. 05) throughout the different stages of oocyte maturation. In a subsequent study seven cows were challenged with non-cytopathogenic BVDV (strain Pe515: 5x10(6) TCID(50)) to determine the oestradiol and progesterone responses to an acute infection. The sensitivity of the endogenous luteolytic mechanism was also established by analysing plasma prostaglandin F2alpha metabolite (PGFM) levels following an exogenous oxytocin (50 IU) challenge. The inoculation was given 2 days before a synchronised oestrus and was timed to ensure that viraemia occurred during the initial stage of corpora luteal development. Seven cows inoculated with non-infectious culture medium served as control animals and remained BVDV naive throughout the study. The BVDV challenge was followed by leucopenia, viraemia and sero-conversion. The virus also significantly (P<0.01) reduced plasma oestradiol levels between day 6 and day 11 post-inoculation (i.e. between day 4 and day 9 post-oestrus). However, the infection did not alter (P>0.05) progesterone secretion throughout the oestrous cycle or the plasma concentration of PGFM. These data indicate that bovine follicular cells and oocytes are permissive to BVDV at all stages of follicular development. They also show that a transient fall in oestradiol secretion may accompany an acute infection. In conclusion, this work has identified two potential routes through which BVDV can reduce fertility in the cow, namely impairment of oocyte quality and disruption of gonadal steroidogenesis.


pmid: 22227616
title: Development of a reporter bovine viral diarrhea virus and initial evaluation of its application for high throughput antiviral drug screening
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) causes lethal mucosal disease of cattle and leads to severe economic loss of cattle production and reproduction worldwide. Over the past decades, vaccination was not very successful in providing prevention of BVDV infection. This reality demands that anti-BVDV drugs should be used as an alternative treatment strategy. In this study, a BAC cDNA of noncytopathic BVDV strain SD-1 is constructed to contain an enhanced green fluorescence protein (eGFP) gene between viral NS3 and NS4A coding sequences. The recombinant reporter virus is generated subsequently by transfection of MDBK cells with the transcripts produced in vitro. The rescued reporter virus is stable in MDBK cells and the eGFP protein is expressed and processed properly. Of most importance, the reporter virus shows a growth property similar to the SD-1 parent and the fluorescent signal intensity increases in parallel to the reporter virus RNA and protein replication. In addition, two known anti-BVDV drug G418 (viral assembly/release inhibitor) and ribavirin (viral RNA replication inhibitor) are identified as hits in a high-throughput format, suggesting that this system is capable of identifying BVDV inhibitors that target different steps in viral life cycle. The cell-based system developed provides a useful and versatile tool which should facilitate the identification of BVDV inhibitors on a large scale.


pmid: 15283522
title: Fatal trichuris spp. infection in a Holstein heifer persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Whipworms (Trichuris spp.) were identified in the colon of a recently purchased, 10-month-old dairy heifer that died suddenly. A skin test was positive for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Signs of BVDV occurred in other heifers in the group, but fecal flotations were negative for whipworm eggs.


pmid: 26096964
title: Epidemiology and genetic characterization of BVDV, BHV-1, BHV-4, BHV-5 and Brucella spp. infections in cattle in Turkey
abstract: The aim of the study was to determine the epidemiological data of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), bovine herpesvirus-4 (BHV-4), bovine herpesvirus-5 (BHV-5) and Brucella-associated cattle that were previously reported to have abortion and infertility problems in Ankara, Corum, Kirikkale and Yozgat provinces, Turkey. Whole blood and sera samples were obtained from 656 cattle, and antibodies against Brucella spp. were detected in 45 (6.86%) and 41 (6.25%) animals by Rose Bengal plate and serum tube agglutination tests, respectively. The seropositivity rates against BVDV, BHV-1 and BHV-4 were 70.89%, 41.3% and 28.78%, respectively. RT-PCR and PCR were performed to detect RNA and DNA viruses in blood samples, respectively. The BVDV 5'-untranslated region and BHV-1 gB gene detected in this study were phylogenetically analyzed. The BVDV strains analyzed in this study were closely related to those previously reported from Turkey. The nucleotide sequence from the BHV-1 strain detected in this study is the first nucleotide sequence of BHV-1 circulating in this area of Turkey deposited in the GenBank. The presence of Brucella spp. and prevalence of BHV-1, BHV-4 and BVDV in cattle should be further investigated throughout these regions.


pmid: 25837831
title: Expression of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Envelope Glycoprotein E2 in Yeast Pichia pastoris and its Application to an ELISA for Detection of BVDV Neutralizing Antibodies in Cattle
abstract: The aim of this article is to express envelope glycoprotein E2 of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in yeast Pichia pastoris and its utility as a diagnostic antigen in ELISA. The BVDV E2 gene was cloned into the pPICZαA vector followed by integration into the Pichia pastoris strain X-33 genome for methanol-induced expression. SDS-PAGE and Western blot results showed that the recombinant BVDV E2 protein (72 kDa) was expressed and secreted into the medium at a concentration of 40 mg/L of culture under optimized conditions. An indirect ELISA was then developed by using the yeast-expressed E2 protein. Preliminary testing of 300 field cattle serum samples showed that the E2 ELISA showed a sensitivity of 91.07% and a specificity of 92.02% compared to the reference virus neutralization test. The concordance between the E2 ELISA and VNT was 91.67%. This study demonstrates feasibility of BVDV E2 protein expression in yeast Pichia pastoris for the first time and its efficacy as an antigen in ELISA for detecting BVDV neutralizing antibodies in cattle.


pmid: 15228555
title: Experimental inoculation of pregnant swine with type 1 bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: The ability of bovine viral diarrhoea virus type 1 (BVDV-1) to induce transplacental infection in pigs was evaluated. Control pigs (n = 4) were sham-inoculated while infected pigs (n = 4) were intranasally inoculated with BVDV-1 on day 65 of gestation. Blood samples were tested throughout the study for BVDV and antibody to BVDV. On day 110 of gestation, a Caesarean section was performed. Serum was obtained for virus isolation and antibody determination from all piglets, and all experimental animals were killed. Tissues were collected for virus isolation and histopathology. Bovine viral diarrhoea virus was isolated on days 5 and 7 after infection and seroconversion was demonstrated in all infected gilts; however, BVDV was only isolated from one fetus from an infected pig. Viraemia and seroconversion were demonstrated in the pregnant gilts; however, transplacental infection at day 65 of gestation in the pig was not consistently demonstrated.


pmid: 10489341
title: Genetic diversity of pestiviruses: identification of novel groups and implications for classification
abstract: The complete Npro coding sequences were determined for 16 pestiviruses isolated from cattle, pig, and several wild ruminant species including reindeer, bison, deer, and bongo. Phylogenetic analysis enabled the segregation of pestiviruses into the established species bovine viral diarrhea virus-1 (BVDV-1), BVDV-2, border disease virus (BDV), and classical swine fever virus (CSFV). For BVDV-1 five distinct subgroups were identified, while BVDV-2, BDV, and CSFV were each subdivided into two subgroups. The virus isolates from bongo and deer as well as one porcine virus isolate belong to BVDV-1. Interestingly, the isolates from reindeer and bison are distinct from the established pestivirus species. The Npro sequences from these two viruses are more similar to BDV than to the other pestivirus species. Calculation of the pairwise evolutionary distances allowed a clear separation of the categories species, subgroup, and isolate only when the reindeer/bison viruses were considered as members of an additional pestivirus species. Furthermore, the entire E2 coding sequences of a representative set of virus isolates covering all recognized species and subgroups were studied. Segregation of pestiviruses based on the E2 region was identical with that obtained with the N(pro) sequences.


pmid: 8669379
title: Comparison of the prevalence and incidence of infection with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in Denmark and Michigan and association with possible risk factors
abstract: Based on 2 previous surveys on the occurrence of infection with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in Danish and Michigan dairy herds, the prevalence and incidence of the infection were compared. The presence of certain possible risk factors for the occurrence of infection in the 2 areas were summarized and it was investigated if any of these risk factors had significant effect on the presence of animals persistently infected (PI) with BVDV in the dairy herds. Information on the cattle population density in the 2 areas was obtained from statistical yearbooks. Further information for the individual farms on age distribution, housing of animals, herd size, pasturing and purchasing policy was gathered. The prevalence of PI animals was more than 10 times higher in Denmark as compared to Michigan. In herds without PI animals, the annual incidence of seroconversion as calculated from the age specific prevalence of antibody carriers varied in most age groups between 20-25% in Denmark and between 5-10% in Michigan. All investigated risk factors except for herd size were in favour of a lower prevalence of infection in Michigan. The use of having animals on pasture and at the same time having purchased more than 40 animals within recent 3 1/2-4 years were significantly associated with presence of PI animals in the dairy herds (p = 0.01) when tested by the Mantel-Haenszel chi 2. Using multivariable logistic regression, the occurrence of PI animals was found to be significantly related to the study area (Michigan and Denmark) as well as to herd size and purchase intensity.


pmid: 1336242
title: Infection of ovine fetal brain cell cultures with cytopathogenic and non-cytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: The in vitro cell tropism of non-cytopathogenic (ncp) and cytopathogenic (cp) bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was studied in primary dissociated brain cell cultures derived from ovine fetuses of different gestational ages. The cell types infected were identified by double immunofluorescence using antibodies against BVDV and cell type-specific markers. In cultures infected with ncp BVDV viral antigen was present in neurofilament (NF 200 kDa)-positive neurons, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive astrocytes and fibronectin-expressing cells. Estimation of the percentages of individual cell types infected with ncp BVDV indicated a tropism for NF 200-positive neurons. In cultures infected with cp BVD virus cytopathic changes were observed beginning at 40 hours post infection. Viral antigen was present in vacuolated NF 200-, GFAP- and fibronectin-positive cells. In comparison with non-infected control cultures a considerable reduction of the number of the different cell types was seen.


pmid: 1311133
title: Application of the polymerase chain reaction to the detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus infections in cattle
abstract: We used the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique to detect bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections in cattle. Of 120 cattle screened in this study, 29 were scored positive for BVDV with both PCR and conventional virus isolation. Ninety cattle were negative in both assays. One cow was scored positive for BVDV with the PCR but was negative with virus isolation. In dilution experiments PCR analysis was at least 10 times more sensitive than BVDV isolation.


pmid: 2158254
title: Antibodies to bovine parvovirus acquired by neonatal pigs through ingestion of virus and antibody in the diet
abstract: The ability of pigs to respond immunologically to ingestion of bovine parvovirus (BPV) was tested by feeding 4 cesarean-derived, colostrum-deprived (CDCD) pigs a live virus-contaminated, liquid diet for the first 4 weeks of life. Virus-neutralizing (VN) antibodies were detected in the serum of 2 of the 4 pigs when they were 4 weeks old. Antibody titer remained at about the same level for several weeks, then decreased during the remainder of the 29-week interval of testing. The relative reactivity of these sera based on results of indirect immunofluorescence paralleled the corresponding VN titer. Neither of the other 2 pigs exposed to BPV had any appreciable immune response. The potential for passive acquisition of antibody from the diet was tested by feeding 4 other CDCD pigs bovine colostrum containing antibodies to BPV and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) for the first 2 days of life. All had serum VN antibodies for both viruses when they were tested at 2 days of age. The decay rate of the heterologous, passively acquired antibody was approximately linear; however, antibody half-life was relatively short, about 3.5 days, and titers were no longer detectable when pigs were 4 weeks (BPV) and 6 weeks (BVDV) old. An additional 4 CDCD pigs fed a liquid diet without virus or antibody remained free of any appreciable serum reactivity for either BPV or BVDV. Results supported the hypothesis that antibodies for BPV previously detected in the serum of pigs and people may reflect ingestion of virus-contaminated bovine milk or milk products.


pmid: 17509780
title: Genetic and antigenic characterization of bovine viral diarrhea virus type 2 isolated from Indian goats (Capra hircus)
abstract: Recent studies have shown that bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type 1 is widely prevalent in Indian cattle. In a surveillance of randomly collected 562 blood samples from seven states during 2004-2006, BVDV type 2 was detected in two native Indian goats by nested reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (nRT-PCR). The virus isolated from them was classified antigenically as BVDV 2 on the basis of virus neutralization test and reactivity with monoclonal antibodies. Phylogenetic analysis of three different genomic regions, 5' un-translated region (5' UTR), E(rns) structural coding region and NS5B nonstructural coding region typed Indian goat isolate as BVDV 2a having close similarity with strains from North America and Europe suggesting its probable introduction through trade. It was placed in a separate clade within the 2a branch having unique mutations in E(rns) and NS5B region. This is the first report of BVDV 2 in India and only second time recorded in goat species. The isolation of BVDV 2 from goat warrants intensive surveillance in cattle and sheep.


pmid: 11846427
title: Method for detection of extraneous active bovine viral diarrhoea virus and classical swine fever virus in animal viral vaccines by RT-PCR, which amplify negative-strand viral RNA in infected cells
abstract: An oligonucleotide sense primer, Pst324alpha, was designed and used for synthesizing cDNA from negative-strand viral RNA in infected cells and used for rapid detection of active extraneous bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and classical swine fever virus (CSFV) in animal viral vaccines by culturing a sample in cells followed by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Active and inactivated viruses of BVDV No. 12-43 strain and CSFV GPE(-)strain were inoculated to bovine testicle and swine testicle cells for incubation. After the complete extraction of RNA from these cells, cDNA was synthesized using Pst324alpha, and PCR was carried out using primers 324 and 326 (novel RT-PCR). Amplification of novel RT-PCR products was observed in cells infected with active viruses but not in cells inoculated with inactivated viruses, inoculums and cultured media after incubation. This novel RT-PCR was able to amplify viral sequences from cells infected with only a small number of infectious particles (less than 10 TCID50) at three days postinoculation and was as sensitive as the general RT-PCR using a random primer and the interference and immunofluorescent antibody (FA) methods. The results of experiments on detection of BVDV RNA from vaccines contaminated with active and inactivated BVDV showed that the sensitivity of the novel RT-PCR was almost the same as the sensitivities of the interference and FA methods. These results suggest that the novel RT-PCR is easier and more rapid than the interference method for detection of active BVDV and that the novel RT-PCR is a reliable means for detection of active extraneous BVDV for quality control of animal vaccines.


pmid: 26096964
title: Epidemiology and genetic characterization of BVDV, BHV-1, BHV-4, BHV-5 and Brucella spp. infections in cattle in Turkey
abstract: The aim of the study was to determine the epidemiological data of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), bovine herpesvirus-4 (BHV-4), bovine herpesvirus-5 (BHV-5) and Brucella-associated cattle that were previously reported to have abortion and infertility problems in Ankara, Corum, Kirikkale and Yozgat provinces, Turkey. Whole blood and sera samples were obtained from 656 cattle, and antibodies against Brucella spp. were detected in 45 (6.86%) and 41 (6.25%) animals by Rose Bengal plate and serum tube agglutination tests, respectively. The seropositivity rates against BVDV, BHV-1 and BHV-4 were 70.89%, 41.3% and 28.78%, respectively. RT-PCR and PCR were performed to detect RNA and DNA viruses in blood samples, respectively. The BVDV 5'-untranslated region and BHV-1 gB gene detected in this study were phylogenetically analyzed. The BVDV strains analyzed in this study were closely related to those previously reported from Turkey. The nucleotide sequence from the BHV-1 strain detected in this study is the first nucleotide sequence of BHV-1 circulating in this area of Turkey deposited in the GenBank. The presence of Brucella spp. and prevalence of BHV-1, BHV-4 and BVDV in cattle should be further investigated throughout these regions.


pmid: 25837831
title: Expression of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Envelope Glycoprotein E2 in Yeast Pichia pastoris and its Application to an ELISA for Detection of BVDV Neutralizing Antibodies in Cattle
abstract: The aim of this article is to express envelope glycoprotein E2 of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in yeast Pichia pastoris and its utility as a diagnostic antigen in ELISA. The BVDV E2 gene was cloned into the pPICZαA vector followed by integration into the Pichia pastoris strain X-33 genome for methanol-induced expression. SDS-PAGE and Western blot results showed that the recombinant BVDV E2 protein (72 kDa) was expressed and secreted into the medium at a concentration of 40 mg/L of culture under optimized conditions. An indirect ELISA was then developed by using the yeast-expressed E2 protein. Preliminary testing of 300 field cattle serum samples showed that the E2 ELISA showed a sensitivity of 91.07% and a specificity of 92.02% compared to the reference virus neutralization test. The concordance between the E2 ELISA and VNT was 91.67%. This study demonstrates feasibility of BVDV E2 protein expression in yeast Pichia pastoris for the first time and its efficacy as an antigen in ELISA for detecting BVDV neutralizing antibodies in cattle.


pmid: 23427937
title: Evaluation of prenucleic acid extraction for increasing sensitivity of detection of virus in bovine follicular fluid pools
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BoHV-1), and bovine herpesvirus type 5 (BoHV-5) are major cattle pathogens that can be present in biological materials used in assisted reproduction biotechnologies. The aim of the present study was to increase the sensitivity of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for detection of BVDV, BoHV-1, and BoHV-5 in bovine follicular fluid (FF) collected during oocyte retrieval for in vitro embryo production. Ovaries were collected immediately after slaughter at a commercial abattoir, aspirated, and the 7336 samples of FF were pooled in 84 samples. Before testing the FF field samples, sensitivity of the protocol was determined using a prenucleic acid extraction procedure that was directly compared with standard RNA or DNA extraction protocols. The prenucleic acid extraction procedure increased sensitivity of reverse transcription (RT)-PCR for BVDV and nested PCR for BoHV-1 and BoHV-5 by 100 and 10 times, respectively. The 84 FF pools were assayed for BVDV, BoHV-1, and BoHV-5 using virus isolation and RT-PCR or nested PCR. Fourteen (16.7%) FF pools were positive for BVDV RNA, and one (1.2%) was positive for BoHV-1 DNA. Two of the BVDV RT-PCR positive samples and the one BoHV-1 PCR positive sample were also positive in cell culture, demonstrating that FF contained infectious viruses. In this study, the prenucleic acid extraction procedure increased the sensitivity of RT-PCR and PCR detection. This study highlighted the importance of assuring biosecurity by detecting the presence of viral pathogens in biological materials used during in vitro embryo production.


pmid: 32386079
title: An outbreak of abortions, stillbirths and malformations in a Spanish sheep flock associated with a bovine viral diarrhoea virus 2-contaminated orf vaccine
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is a pestivirus that affects both cattle and sheep, causing an array of clinical signs, which include abortions and malformations in the offspring. Manufacturing of modified live virus (MLV) vaccines often includes the use of bovine-derived products, which implies a risk of contamination with viable BVDV. Recently, the circulation of a specific strain of BVDV 2b among Spanish sheep flocks, associated with outbreaks of abortions and malformations, and whose origin was not determined, has been observed. On February 2018, a MLV orf vaccine was applied to a 1,600 highly prolific sheep flock in the Northeast of Spain that included 550 pregnant ewes. In May 2018, during the lambing season, an unusual high rate (72.7%) of abortions, stillbirths, congenital malformations and neurological signs in the offspring was observed. It was estimated that about 1,000 lambs were lost. Three 1- to 3-day-old affected lambs and a sealed vial of the applied vaccine were studied. Lambs showed variable degrees of central nervous system malformations and presence of pestiviral antigen in the brain. Molecular studies demonstrated the presence of exactly the same BVDV 2b in the tissues of the three lambs and in the orf vaccine, thus pointing to a pestivirus contamination in the applied vaccine as the cause of the outbreak. Interestingly, sequencing at the 5'-untranslated region-(UTR) of the contaminating virus showed a complete match with the virus described in the previously reported outbreaks in Spain, thus indicating that the same contaminated vaccine could have also played a role in those cases. This communication provides a clear example of the effects of the application of this contaminated product in a sheep flock. The information presented here can be of interest in putative future cases of suspected circulation of this or other BVDV strains in ruminants.


pmid: 29322882
title: Molecular detection and characterization of transient bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections in cattle commingled with ten BVDV persistently infected cattle
abstract: Fifty-three cattle of unknown serologic status that were not persistently infected (PI) with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were commingled with 10 cattle that were PI with different strains of BVDV, and were monitored for an extended commingle period using a reverse-transcription real-time PCR (RT-rtPCR) BVDV assay on various sample types. Transient infections with BVDV were also assessed by virus isolation, virus neutralization (VN) assays, and direct buffy coat 5'-UTR sequencing. Infections were demonstrated in all cattle by RT-rtPCR; however, the detection rate was dependent on the type of sample. Buffy coat samples demonstrated a significantly greater number of positive results ( p ≤ 0.05) than either serum or nasal swab samples. Presence of elevated BVDV VN titers at the onset inversely correlated with the number of test days positive that an individual would be identified by RT-rtPCR from buffy coat samples, and directly correlated with the average Ct values accumulated over all RT-rtPCR test days from buffy coat samples. Both single and mixed genotype/subgenotype/strain infections were detected in individual cattle by direct sample 5'-UTR sequencing. A BVDV-2a strain from a PI animal was found to be the predominant strain infecting 64% of all non-PI cattle; BVDV-1b strains originating from 3 PI cattle were never detected in non-PI cattle. Although direct sample 5'-UTR sequencing was capable of demonstrating mixed BVDV infections, identifying all strains suspected was not always efficient or possible.


pmid: 19526350
title: Maximum likelihood and Bayesian analyses of a combined nucleotide sequence dataset for genetic characterization of a novel pestivirus, SVA/cont-08
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus 1 (BVDV-1) and Bovine viral diarrhoea virus 2 (BVDV-2) are two recognised bovine pestivirus species of the genus Pestivirus. Recently, a pestivirus, termed SVA/cont-08, was detected in a batch of contaminated foetal calf serum originating from South America. Comparative sequence analysis showed that the SVA/cont-08 virus shares 15-28% higher sequence identity to pestivirus D32/00_'HoBi' than to members of BVDV-1 and BVDV-2. In order to reveal the phylogenetic relationship of SVA/cont-08 with other pestiviruses, a molecular dataset of 30 pestiviruses and 1,896 characters, comprising the 5'UTR, N(pro) and E2 gene regions, was analysed by two methods: maximum likelihood and Bayesian approach. An identical, well-supported tree topology was observed, where four pestiviruses (SVA/cont-08, D32/00_'HoBi', CH-KaHo/cont, and Th/04_KhonKaen) formed a monophyletic clade that is closely related to the BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 clades. The strategy applied in this study is useful for classifying novel pestiviruses in the future.


pmid: 24360189
title: Economic risk analysis model for bovine viral diarrhea virus biosecurity in cow-calf herds
abstract: A stochastic model was designed to calculate the cost-effectiveness of biosecurity strategies for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in cow-calf herds. Possible sources of BVDV introduction considered were imported animals, including the calves of pregnant imports, and fenceline contact with infected herds, including stocker cattle raised in adjacent pastures. Spread of BVDV through the herd was modeled with a stochastic SIR model. Financial consequences of BVDV, including lost income, treatment costs, and the cost of biosecurity strategies, were calculated for 10 years, based on the risks of a herd with a user-defined import profile. Results indicate that importing pregnant animals and stockers increased the financial risk of BVDV. Strategic testing in combination with vaccination most decreased the risk of high-cost outbreaks in most herds. The choice of a biosecurity strategy was specific to the risks of a particular herd.


pmid: 19537915
title: Identification of a bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 isolated from cattle in China
abstract: The identification and characterization of bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 (BVDV-2) strain SD-06 isolated from cattle in China is reported. We performed sequence analysis of 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) and E2 sequences and the identity at the nucleotide and amino acid level indicated that the isolate was closely related to BVDV-2. The BVDV-2 strain New York'93 showed the highest sequence homology with the isolate SD-06. The phylogenetic analysis revealed that the isolate SD-06 belonged to BVDV-2a subtype. Furthermore, immunofluorescence assay with the monoclonal antibody specific for BVDV-2 glycoprotein E2 confirmed this identification. Thus, the strain SD-06 was the first isolate of BVDV-2 identified in China.


pmid: 25045658
title: Extended genetic diversity of bovine viral diarrhea virus and frequency of genotypes and subtypes in cattle in Italy between 1995 and 2013
abstract: Genetic typing of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has distinguished BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 species and an emerging putative third species (HoBi-like virus), recently detected in southern Italy, signaling the occurrence of natural infection in Europe. Recognizing the need to update the data on BVDV genetic variability in Italy for mounting local and European alerts, a wide collection of 5' UTR sequences (n = 371) was selected to identify the frequency of genotypes and subtypes at the herd level. BVDV-1 had the highest frequency, followed by sporadic BVDV-2. No novel HoBi-like viruses were identified. Four distribution patterns of BVDV-1 subtypes were observed: highly prevalent subtypes with a wide temporal-spatial distribution (1b and 1e), low prevalent subtypes with a widespread geographic distribution (1a, 1d, 1g, 1h, and 1k) or a restricted geographic distribution (1f), and sporadic subtypes detected only in single herds (1c, 1j, and 1l). BVDV-1c, k, and l are reported for the first time in Italy. A unique genetic variant was detected in the majority of herds, but cocirculation of genetic variants was also observed. Northern Italy ranked first for BVDV introduction, prevalence, and dispersion. Nevertheless, the presence of sporadic variants in other restricted areas suggests the risk of different routes of BVDV introduction.


pmid: 21719306
title: Methods to select suitable fetal bovine serum for use in quality control assays for the detection of adventitious viruses from biological products
abstract: Production of biological products, especially vaccines, usually requires materials derived from animals, and there are always risks that animal pathogens derived from these materials could contaminate the final products. Detection of adventitious agents is performed by quality control tests. In these biological assays, animal derived materials are also used and another problem arises, as fetal bovine serum (FBS) is used as an ingredient in tissue culture media. FBS contaminated with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) or other bovine pathogens, as well as antibodies against these pathogens may lead to false results in quality control assays. In this study, in order to determine the actual status of commercial FBS, we performed quality tests on various FBS samples. As a result, in 28 of 49 FBS samples (57.1%), pestivirus genes were detected by pan-pestivirus reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction assay. Furthermore, two samples contained infectious BVDV. Neutralizing antibodies against BVDVs were detected in 48 of 49 samples (97.6%) by the virus neutralization test based on the serum-dilution or virus-dilution methods. Antibodies against other bovine pathogens were detected rarely in these samples. From our results, we recommend methods to select FBS that are focused on detection of BVDV and neutralizing antibodies against BVDV.


pmid: 11390117
title: Genetic typing of bovine viral diarrhea virus isolates from Argentina
abstract: Genetic typing of 29 Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) isolates from Argentina was carried out by sequencing 245 nucleotides of the RT-PCR products of the 5'-UTR region. Sequence analysis shows that these Argentinean BVDV include types 1 and 2. The majority (26/29) of the isolates are type 1, which comprises subtypes 1a and 1b, together with an additional subgroup within subtype 1a. This subgroup is close to the South African subgroup Ic of 1a viruses, and to the deer pestivirus strain "Deer". The three type 2 BVDV were isolated from fetal tissues or serum during the 7-8 years before a clinical outbreak in Argentina had been reported. Only inactivated vaccines are used in bovines of the country, thus the analysed viruses are authentic field strains. The long term circulation of type 2 BVDV (situation similar to that of North America before the epidemic of 1993), and the existence of viral populations which differ from the reference strains commonly used in vaccine elaboration should be considered by manufacturers of diagnostic reagents and vaccines.


pmid: 26779151
title: Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus in Zoos: A Perspective from the Veterinary Team
abstract: The many different species in close proximity make zoological collections a unique environment for disease transmission. Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) is of special concern with zoos due to the numerous exotic ruminant species that this virus can infect. BVDV occurs as both a non-cytopathic and a cytopathic strain both of which are capable of infecting exotic ruminants. The cytopathic strain causes mucosal disease (MD) and death. Infection with the non-cytopathic strain may produce persistently infected (PI) animals. PI individuals may show vague clinical signs, including abortion. Management of BVDV in zoos should focus on identification of PI individuals and prevention of infection of other animals of the collection. Variability makes serological testing as the sole method of screening for BVDV infection undesirable in exotic ruminants. Combination testing provides a definitive answer, especially in sensitive wildlife. Use of a combination of antigen-capture ELISA (ACE) with haired skin, Real Time-PCR (RT-PCR) on whole blood, and antibody detection via serum neutralization has the greatest potential to identify PI animals. An animal that is positive on both ACE and RT-PCR, but is negative on serology should be considered highly suspicious of being a PI, and should be isolated and undergo repeat testing 4-6 weeks later to confirm positive status. This testing methodology also allows screening of pregnant and newborn animals. Isolation or culling may need to be considered in animals determined to be positive via combination testing. These decisions should only be made after careful consideration and evaluation, especially with endangered species.


pmid: 12146890
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) 1b: predominant BVDV subtype in calves with respiratory disease
abstract: The prevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections was determined in 2 groups of stocker calves with acute respiratory disease. Both studies used calves assembled after purchase from auction markets by an order buyer and transported to feedyards, where they were held for approximately 30 d. In 1 study, the calves were mixed with fresh ranch calves from a single ranch. During the studies, at day 0 and at weekly intervals, blood was collected for viral antibody testing and virus isolation from peripheral blood leukocytes (PBLs), and nasal swabs were taken for virus isolation. Samples from sick calves were also collected. Serum was tested for antibodies to bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), BVDV1a, 1b, and 2, parainfluenza 3 virus (PI3V), and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV). The lungs from the calves that died during the studies were examined histopathologically, and viral and bacterial isolation was performed on lung homogenates. BVDV was isolated from calves in both studies; the predominant biotype was noncytopathic (NCP). Differential polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and nucleic acid sequencing showed the predominant subtype to be BVDV1b in both studies. In 1999, NCP BVDV1b was detected in numerous samples over time from 1 persistently infected calf; the calf did not seroconvert to BVDV1a or BVDV2. In both studies, BVDV was isolated from the serum, PBLs, and nasal swabs of the calves, and in the 1999 study, it was isolated from lung tissue at necropsy. BVDV was demonstrated serologically and by virus isolation to be a contributing factor in respiratory disease. It was isolated more frequently from sick calves than healthy calves, by both pen and total number of calves. BVDV1a and BVDV2 seroconversions were related to sickness in selected pens and total number of calves. In the 1999 study, BVDV-infected calves were treated longer than noninfected calves (5.643 vs 4.639 d; P = 0.0902). There was a limited number of BVDV1a isolates and, with BVDV1b used in the virus neutralization test for antibodies in seroconverting calves' serum, BVDV1b titers were higher than BVDV1a titers. This study indicates that BVDV1 strains are involved in acute respiratory disease of calves with pneumonic Mannheimia haemolytica and Pasteurella multocida disease. The BVDV2 antibodies may be due to cross-reactions, as typing of the BVDV strains revealed BVDV1b or la but not BVDV2. The BVDV1b subtype has considerable implications, as, with 1 exception, all vaccines licensed in the United States contain BVDV1a, a strain with different antigenic properties. BVDV1b potentially could infect BVDV1a-vaccinated calves.


pmid: 30340154
title: Identification of structural glycoprotein E2 domain critical to mediate replication of Classical Swine Fever Virus in SK6 cells
abstract: Envelope glycoprotein E2 of Classical Swine Fever Virus (CSFV) is involved in several critical virus functions. To analyze the role of E2 in virus replication, a series of recombinant CSFVs harboring chimeric forms of E2 CSFV and Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were created and tested for their ability to infect swine or bovine cell lines. Substitution of native CSFV E2 by BVDV E2 abrogates virus replication in both cell lines. Substitution of individual domains in CSFV Brescia E2 by the homologous from BVDV produces chimeras that efficiently replicate in SK6 cells with the exception of a chimera harboring BVDV E2 residues 93-168. Further mapping revealed a critical area in E2 required for CSFV replication in SK6 cells between protein residues 136-156. This is the first report categorically defining a discrete portion of E2 as essential to pestivirus infection in susceptible cells.


pmid: 29316971
title: Mycoplasma bovis co-infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus in bovine macrophages
abstract: Several studies suggest that synergisms between Mycoplasma bovis and other microorganisms might exacerbate disease outcome of bovine mycoplasmosis. Screening several bovine cell types to assess their potential use as in vitro infection models for M. bovis, it was observed that a widely used cell line of bovine macrophages (Bomac cells) is in fact persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). The cell line was first cured of this virus allowing comparative studies between both cell lines. Subsequently, uptake and co-culture of two M. bovis strains of different clonal complexes with Bomac cells contaminated with BVDV and in BVDV-free Bomac cells were assessed. Additionally, cell viability, cytotoxicity and induction of apoptosis after infection with M. bovis were evaluated. No differences in the levels of uptake and growth in co-culture were observed between the two Bomac cell types and both M. bovis strains. Cytotoxicity was increased after infection of BVDV-free cells with one of the two strains, while apoptotic cell death was slightly induced by this strain in both cell lines. Overall, the presence or absence of BVDV in Bomac cells did not grossly change the parameters tested upon infection with M. bovis. Nevertheless, this cell model is very useful when studying viral co-infections with bacteria and could also be used for multiple co-infections. Considering the broad contamination of cell cultures with BVDV, careful screening for this virus should routinely be performed as its presence might be relevant depending on the molecular mechanisms being investigated.


pmid: 26779151
title: Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus in Zoos: A Perspective from the Veterinary Team
abstract: The many different species in close proximity make zoological collections a unique environment for disease transmission. Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) is of special concern with zoos due to the numerous exotic ruminant species that this virus can infect. BVDV occurs as both a non-cytopathic and a cytopathic strain both of which are capable of infecting exotic ruminants. The cytopathic strain causes mucosal disease (MD) and death. Infection with the non-cytopathic strain may produce persistently infected (PI) animals. PI individuals may show vague clinical signs, including abortion. Management of BVDV in zoos should focus on identification of PI individuals and prevention of infection of other animals of the collection. Variability makes serological testing as the sole method of screening for BVDV infection undesirable in exotic ruminants. Combination testing provides a definitive answer, especially in sensitive wildlife. Use of a combination of antigen-capture ELISA (ACE) with haired skin, Real Time-PCR (RT-PCR) on whole blood, and antibody detection via serum neutralization has the greatest potential to identify PI animals. An animal that is positive on both ACE and RT-PCR, but is negative on serology should be considered highly suspicious of being a PI, and should be isolated and undergo repeat testing 4-6 weeks later to confirm positive status. This testing methodology also allows screening of pregnant and newborn animals. Isolation or culling may need to be considered in animals determined to be positive via combination testing. These decisions should only be made after careful consideration and evaluation, especially with endangered species.


pmid: 12146890
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) 1b: predominant BVDV subtype in calves with respiratory disease
abstract: The prevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections was determined in 2 groups of stocker calves with acute respiratory disease. Both studies used calves assembled after purchase from auction markets by an order buyer and transported to feedyards, where they were held for approximately 30 d. In 1 study, the calves were mixed with fresh ranch calves from a single ranch. During the studies, at day 0 and at weekly intervals, blood was collected for viral antibody testing and virus isolation from peripheral blood leukocytes (PBLs), and nasal swabs were taken for virus isolation. Samples from sick calves were also collected. Serum was tested for antibodies to bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), BVDV1a, 1b, and 2, parainfluenza 3 virus (PI3V), and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV). The lungs from the calves that died during the studies were examined histopathologically, and viral and bacterial isolation was performed on lung homogenates. BVDV was isolated from calves in both studies; the predominant biotype was noncytopathic (NCP). Differential polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and nucleic acid sequencing showed the predominant subtype to be BVDV1b in both studies. In 1999, NCP BVDV1b was detected in numerous samples over time from 1 persistently infected calf; the calf did not seroconvert to BVDV1a or BVDV2. In both studies, BVDV was isolated from the serum, PBLs, and nasal swabs of the calves, and in the 1999 study, it was isolated from lung tissue at necropsy. BVDV was demonstrated serologically and by virus isolation to be a contributing factor in respiratory disease. It was isolated more frequently from sick calves than healthy calves, by both pen and total number of calves. BVDV1a and BVDV2 seroconversions were related to sickness in selected pens and total number of calves. In the 1999 study, BVDV-infected calves were treated longer than noninfected calves (5.643 vs 4.639 d; P = 0.0902). There was a limited number of BVDV1a isolates and, with BVDV1b used in the virus neutralization test for antibodies in seroconverting calves' serum, BVDV1b titers were higher than BVDV1a titers. This study indicates that BVDV1 strains are involved in acute respiratory disease of calves with pneumonic Mannheimia haemolytica and Pasteurella multocida disease. The BVDV2 antibodies may be due to cross-reactions, as typing of the BVDV strains revealed BVDV1b or la but not BVDV2. The BVDV1b subtype has considerable implications, as, with 1 exception, all vaccines licensed in the United States contain BVDV1a, a strain with different antigenic properties. BVDV1b potentially could infect BVDV1a-vaccinated calves.


pmid: 19747863
title: The prevalence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus infection in beef suckler herds in Scotland
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) is an endemic disease of cattle that causes substantial losses to both beef and dairy production worldwide. The goal of this study was to estimate the prevalence of active BVD virus (BVDV) infection in beef suckler herds in Scotland. Information was collected from 301 herds using a stratified random sampling design based on agricultural census data. Herds were classified as with and without active infection based on the within-herd BVDV seroprevalence in young stock using Bayesian finite mixture modelling. This method accounted for within- and between-herd variability and allowed for classification error by the diagnostic tests. The observed sample data enabled the discrimination of three distinct seroprevalence cohorts. The results provided evidence of active BVDV infection in 16% of herds and no evidence of recent exposure in approximately two thirds of herds. The epidemiological significance of the further 16% of herds containing young stock with a median BVDV seroprevalence of 26.3-38.5% remains unclear. The fact that a large percentage of herds did not show evidence of recent infection is encouraging from an animal health and welfare perspective and the study provides a model for the further exploration of strategies aimed at BVD control at national level.


pmid: 2836466
title: Detection of cytopathic and noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus in cell culture with an immunoperoxidase test
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) antigen was detected in cell culture with an indirect immunoperoxidase (IP) procedure using a specific monoclonal antibody, and an avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex. Cytopathic and noncytopathic strains of the virus showed similar patterns of IP staining until 3 days post-infection. At six days post-infection, intensity of staining decreased in cell cultures infected with noncytopathic virus, but not with cytopathic virus. The IP procedure detected BVDV antigen in cells used to isolate virus from tissues of aborted bovine fetuses and peripheral blood lymphocytes of adult cattle. Immunoperoxidase detected BVDV isolates from 10 of 44 cases of abortion of which seven of these were noncytopathic. Noncytopathic BVDV isolates from the peripheral blood lymphocytes of 7 of 65 animals were identified.


pmid: 23229205
title: Identification and characterization of a novel subgenotype of bovine viral diarrhea virus isolated from dairy cattle in Northwestern China
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was detected by RT-PCR in 105 out of 391 samples which were collected from five dairy farms in Ningxia, China during 2010-2011. Non-cytopathogenic BVDV was isolated from 13 samples and a 230-bp fragment of the 5'-untranslated region was amplified and sequenced. While the predominant subgenotypes were BVDV-1b and BVDV-1d, a potentially novel subgenotype was identified by phylogenetic analysis, which may have implications for vaccine development.


pmid: 14516168
title: Biotypic characterisation of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in clinical samples
abstract: In this study, bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was detected and bio-typically characterised in clinical samples using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The RT-PCR technique produced two different amplicons (402 and approx. 680 bp in size) in case of the presence of both biotypes (cp and ncp) in the sample. The mixture of the biotypes as detected by RT-PCR was verified by the immunoplaque assay (IPA). Purification of biotypes was carried out by native plaque isolation and subsequent RT-PCR revealed single products (402 or approx. 680 bp in size) in each clone. The results showed that RT-PCR can be used for accurate molecular differentiation between the BVDV biotypes.


pmid: 29217378
title: Serological evidence of Bovine herpesvirus-1, Bovine Viral Diarrhea virus and Schmallenberg virus infections in relation to reproductive disorders in dairy cattle in Ethiopia
abstract: Reproductive disorders in dairy cattle have been noted to be common in urban and peri-urban dairy production system in Ethiopia. The available reports on the causes of these disorders, however, are not conclusive. A case-control study was designed to investigate the possible association of major reproductive disorders in dairy cattle with exposure status to bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and Schmallenberg virus (SBV). Cows with history of abortion/stillbirth were considered as cases (n=204) while, those cows with no such history were taken as control (n=359). The serological screening tests used for all the three viruses were blocking enzyme linked immunosorbent assays (B-ELISAs). Of the total 563 samples tested 58.4%, 43.8% and 32.9% were positive for SBV, BHV-1 and BVDV, respectively. Significant difference between cases and controls were noted for SBV (p=0.026) and BHV-1 exposures (p<0.001). The difference noted for BVDV serostatus was not significant (p>0.05). The highest proportion (28.9%) of concurrent exposures was noted for BHV-1 and SBV, followed by SBV and BVDV (21.5%) and BHV-1 and BVDV (20.2%). Evidence of exposures to all the three viruses were detected in 14.4% of the animals. However, significant difference between cases (39.7%) and controls (22.9%) among cattle with multiple sero-positivity was noted only for BHV-1 and SBV (p<0.001). Proportion of uterine infection (p=0.002) and fetal membrane retention (p=0.005) increased in BHV-1 seropositive animals, while repeat breeding was common (p=0.034) among BVDV exposed ones. Seropositive animals to any of the three viruses were detected in all sampled areas and the proportion of cattle with BHV-1 and SBV exposure history had a higher risk to at least one type of the reproductive disorders mentioned compared to the corresponding sero-negative groups.


pmid: 8668322
title: Detection of bovine-virus-diarrhoea-virus antibodies in cattle with an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay
abstract: The serum-neutralization (SN) and the indirect-immunofluorescence (IIF) assays have invariably been used for detecting antibodies against bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in cattle sera. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was applied which has a sensitivity comparable with the SN and IIF in detecting antibody to BVDV. A total of 472 bovine sera were assayed and a high prevalence of 79.2% was recorded. Positive correlations between the ELISA and the SN were found when certain sera were assayed, implying that the former test could then be used for routine diagnosis of BVDV.


pmid: 1666489
title: Bovine coronavirus as the causative agent of winter dysentery: serological evidence
abstract: Sera from 9 dairy herds with epizootic enteritis (winter dysentery) were examined for antibodies to bovine coronavirus (BCV) and bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV). Cows in 8 of the 9 herds seroconverted to BCV alone, while the animals in the ninth herd, which showed severe symptoms of the disease, seroconverted both to BCV and BVDV. The BCV antibodies, which were present in high titres 1 year postinfection, were transferred to the offspring via the colostrum and were then detectable in sera of calves until these were approximately 5 months old. A serological survey of 549 Swedish heifers showed that 61% of the animals were reactors to BCV. The prevalence of seroreactors to BCV was equally distributed over Sweden but was commonly either high or low in herds. In conclusion, BCV is commonly detected in animals suffering from winter dysentery. A co-infection with BVDV appears to aggravate the disease.


pmid: 6318422
title: Attempted reactivation of latent bovine herpesvirus 1 infection in calves by infection with ruminant pestiviruses
abstract: Three calves, latently infected with bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV 1), were each inoculated intranasally with 9 strains of ruminant pestivirus (BVDV). All three calves developed a biphasic pyrexia and a lymphopenia followed by a neutrophilia. They did not shed BHV 1 in their nasal secretions in the 14 days following BVDV inoculation, and their BHV 1 antibody levels remained static, as did those of 2 control calves not given BVDV. All five calves were subsequently shown to be latently infected with BHV 1 by the production of recrudescent infections following the administration of dexamethasone. BHV 1 was recovered from nasal secretions and there was a marked rise in BHV 1 antibody titres in the second week after dexamethasone administration.


pmid: 1652725
title: Prevalence of ruminant pestivirus infections in Namibia
abstract: Following several clinical cases of suspected bovine virus diarrhoea (BVD) on three Namibian cattle farms, a serological survey was conducted on bovine, ovine, caprine and wild ruminant sera originating from different regions of the country. Neutralizing antibodies to BVD virus (BVDV) were detected in 58% of 1,014 cattle sera, 14% of 618 sheep sera and 4.6% of 1,118 goat sera. Sera from seven of ten wildlife species were positive with kudu, eland and giraffe having prevalence rates greater than 40%. BVDV was isolated from six clinically affected bovines and three healthy heifers persistently infected with BVDV. The survey demonstrated that pestivirus infections are widespread in Namibia in both domestic and wild ruminants.


pmid: 22648753
title: Effects of gastrointestinal parasites on parasite burden, rectal temperature, and antibody titer responses to vaccination and infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus challenge
abstract: Thirty-three colostrum-deprived Holstein bull calves (initial BW of 131 ± 4 kg) were used to determine the effect of timing of anthelmintic administration relative to vaccination on antibody titer response to vaccine component antigens. When calves were at least 3 mo of age, they were sorted randomly into individual pens and assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups, treatments consisted of 1) dewormed 2 wk before vaccination (DPV), 2) dewormed at the time of vaccination (DV), or 3) control, vaccinated but not dewormed (CONT). All calves were inoculated with infective larvae of brown stomach worms (Ostertagia ostertagi) and intestinal worms (Cooperia spp.) on d 1, 7, 10, 14, and 18 for a total dose of 235,710 infective larvae per calf. Calves (DPV and DV) were dewormed on d 21 or 35 with a 10% fenbendazole suspension at 5 mg/kg of BW. On d 35, all calves were vaccinated with a modified-live virus respiratory vaccine containing IBRV (infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus), BVDV-1 (bovine viral diarrhea virus genotype 1), BVDV-2 (BVDV genotype 2), PI-3 (parainfluenza-3), and BRSV (bovine respiratory syncytial virus). During the 103-d experiment, weekly fecal egg counts, blood, and rectal temperatures were collected and health status was recorded daily. Blood samples were obtained weekly to determine serum neutralizing (SN) antibody titers to IBRV, BVDV-1, BVDV-2, and PI-3 and cytokine levels for IL-4, IL-6, TNF-α (tumor necrosis factor-α), and IFN-γ (interferon-gamma). There was a tendency (P < 0.09) for CONT calves to have greater IL-4 concentrations. By design, control calves had greater (P < 0.01) fecal egg counts during the experiment. All calves developed antibody titers to IBRV, BVDV-1, BVDV-2, and PI-3 by d 15 postvaccination. On d 88, all calves were challenged with IBRV and blood samples were obtained on d 88, 89, 90, 93, 95, 98, 99, and 103. All calves had increased rectal temperatures during the final 7 d of the IBRV challenge. However, the CONT group had greater (P < 0.01) rectal temperatures on each sampling day except d 90 compared with the DPV and DV treatments. Therefore, deworming before or at vaccination reduced parasite burden and decreased rectal temperature increase after an IBRV challenge. Deworming strategy had no effect on antibody response to vaccination or IBRV challenge.


pmid: 12206880
title: The combination of interferon alpha-2b and n-butyl deoxynojirimycin has a greater than additive antiviral effect upon production of infectious bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in vitro: implications for hepatitis C virus (HCV) therapy
abstract: Interferon alpha-2b (IFN) alone or in combination with Ribavirin is approved in the United States for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. We have previously reported that the glucosidase inhibitor, n-butyl deoxynojirimycin (nB-DNJ) inhibits the production of infectious bovine diarrhea virus (BVDV) (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 96 (1999) 11878). Since BVDV has been used as a model for HCV and grows productively in tissue culture, and IFN and glucosidase inhibitors are thought to act at different steps in the virus life cycle, it was of interest to determine the antiviral impact of combining nB-DNJ with IFN. Using plaque reduction and single-step growth analyses of the cytopathic BVDV strain NADL, data are presented that shows human IFN inhibited BVDV production in a dose dependent manner, with 3 IU/ml inhibiting 50% of the yield of virus (IC50) when added within 1 h post infection. Under the same conditions, the glucosidase inhibitors nB-DNJ and castanospermine (CST) also prevented BVDV production in a dose dependent manner with IC50s of 226 microM and 47 microM, respectively. In combination with 138 microM nB-DNJ the apparent IC50 for IFN was 0.056 IU/ml. This 54-fold increase in IFN potency suggests that nB-DNJ can synergize with IFN. Two additional independent analyses were performed to measure combination effects which demonstrated that the combined antiviral effect of nB-DNJ and IFN were greater than would be expected for a simple additivity. These data are consistent with an interpretation that glucosidase inhibitors and IFN have a synergistic antiviral effect in tissue culture. The relevance of these finding to treatment of HCV infection is discussed.


pmid: 8736500
title: Concurrent bovine viral diarrhoea virus and Salmonella typhimurium DT104 infection in a group of pregnant dairy heifers
abstract: Two days after being imported into the United Kingdom one of a group of 30 pregnant dairy heifers showed clinical signs of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection and subsequently died. Before it died the heifer was BVDV antigen-positive and antibody-negative. The gross post mortem findings were suggestive of mucosal disease but in addition to noncytopathic BVD virus, Salmonella typhimurium DT104 was cultured from tissues and gut contents. The other heifers were screened for S typhimurium by culturing faeces, and serology showed that 13 (45 per cent) of the group seroconverted to BVDV in the three weeks between samplings and the remainder were seropositive, indicating previous exposure. During this period four heifers showed clinical signs of acute BVDV infection but recovered uneventfully. Four animals (14 per cent) were positive for S typhimurium DT104 on faecal culture, and three of these excretors concurrently seroconverted to BVDV. Of the 29 heifers remaining in the group, one aborted in late gestation, 26 bore live calves and two delivered stillborn calves. Pre-colostral blood samples from the calves showed that their dams' pre-existing antibody titres correlated well with in utero fetal protection. In non-immune dams, exposure to BVDV between 69 and 120 days of gestation led to the birth of live persistently viraemic calves. Infection between 120 and 140 days of gestation led to the birth of live calves with evidence of congenital damage to the central nervous system, and infection later than 140 days of gestation led to the birth of live, normal calves with high pre-colostral antibody titres to BVDV. One calf which sucked colostrum was antibody and virus antigen-positive when sampled at 12 hours old but regular blood sampling failed to detect viraemia again until the calf was seven weeks old when it became persistently viraemic.


pmid: 27695816
title: Dexamethasone treatment differentially alters viral shedding and the antibody and acute phase protein response after multivalent respiratory vaccination in beef steers
abstract: Our objective was to examine immunosuppression induced by dexamethasone (DEX) administration in cattle on immunological responses to a multivalent respiratory vaccine containing replicating and nonreplicating agents. Steers ( = 32; 209 ± 8 kg) seronegative to infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBRV), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), and parainfluenza-3 virus (PI3V) were stratified by BW and randomly assigned to 1 of 3 treatments: 1) acute immunosuppression (ACU; 0.5 mg/kg BW DEX intravenously at 1000 h only on d 0), 2) chronic immunosuppression (CHR; 0.5 mg/kg BW DEX intravenously at 1000 h on d -3 to 0), or 3) a control (CON; no DEX). On d -4, steers were fitted with intravenous catheters in the jugular vein and placed into individual stanchions. At 1200 h on d 0, steers were administered a respiratory vaccine containing modified-live virus (MLV) isolates of IBRV, BVDV, BRSV, and PI3V and a (MH) toxoid. On d 4, cattle were transported (177 km) and housed in an isolated outdoor pen. Serum was harvested on d 0, 7, 14, 21, 28, 35, 42, and 56 to determine IBRV-, BVDV-, BRSV-, and PI3V-specific antibody titers and MH whole cell and leukotoxin antibody concentrations. Sera from d -2, 0, 1, 3, 7, and 14 were used to quantify haptoglobin (Hp) concentration and ceruloplasmin (Cp) activity. Nasal swab specimens were collected on d 0, 3, and 14 to determine the presence of IBRV, BVDV, BRSV, and PI3V via PCR analysis. There was a treatment × day interaction ( < 0.01) such that CHR steers had a greater ( ≤ 0.07) BVDV antibody titer on d 14, 21, and 28. Moreover, IBRV-specific antibodies increased beginning on d 14 for CHR and on d 28 for ACU and remained greater through d 56 compared with CON ( ≤ 0.03). Conversely, serum MH whole cell antibody concentration was least ( ≤ 0.06) for CHR from d 7 to 28 and greatest for CON ( ≤ 0.04) on d 56. Treatment altered Hp such that CON exhibited a greater ( < 0.01) Hp concentration than CHR but was not different from ACU ( = 0.16). On d 3, Cp was greatest for CON, intermediate for ACU, and least for CHR (treatment × day; ≤ 0.01). The prevalence of IBRV and BVDV in nasal swabs on d 14 was 67 and 56%, respectively, for CHR; 10 and 10%, respectively, for CON; and 9 and 0%, respectively, for ACU ( ≤ 0.006). Results suggest that CHR allowed increased replication of MLV vaccine agents. Conversely, DEX-induced immunosuppression blunted the acute phase protein and antibody response against the nonreplicating MH toxoid.


pmid: 22379057
title: Acute bovine viral diarrhea associated with extensive mucosal lesions, high morbidity, and mortality in a commercial feedlot
abstract: In 2008, a northwest Texas feedlot underwent an outbreak of Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) causing high morbidity and mortality involving 2 lots of calves (lots A and B). Severe mucosal surface lesions were observed grossly in the oral cavity, larynx, and esophagus. Mucosal lesions varied from small (1-3 mm) infrequent mucosal ulcerations to large (5 mm to 1 cm) and coalescing ulcerations. Necrotic debris was present in ulcerations of some mortalities with some having plaque-like debris, but other mortalities presented more proliferative lesions. A calf persistently infected with BVDV arrived with one lot and the isolated virus was genotyped as BVDV-1b. Identical BVDV-1b strains were isolated from 2 other mortalities. A BVDV-2a genotype was also isolated in this outbreak. This genotype was identical to all BVDV-2a strains isolated in both lots. Serum samples were collected from exposed and unexposed animals and tested for antibodies for multiple viral pathogens. Seropositivity ranged from zero percent for calicivirus to 100% positive to Pseudocowpox virusx. At the end of the feeding period, the morbidity and mortality for the 2 lots involved was 76.2% and 30.8%, respectively, for lot A, and 49.0% and 5.6%, respectively, for lot B. Differential diagnoses included vesicular stomatitis viruses, Bovine papular stomatitis virus, and Foot-and-mouth disease virus. Based on the present case, acute BVDV should be considered when mucosal lesions are observed grossly.


pmid: 28805020
title: Evaluation of bovine viral diarrhoea virus control strategies in dairy herds in Hokkaido, Japan, using stochastic modelling
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection in cattle can result in growth retardation, reduced milk production, reproductive disorders and death. Persistently infected animals are the primary source of infection. In Hokkaido, Japan, all cattle entering shared pastures in summer are vaccinated before movement for disease control. Additionally, these cattle may be tested for BVDV and culled if positive. However, the effectiveness of this control strategy aiming to reduce the number of BVDV-infected animals has not been assessed. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of various test-and-cull and/or vaccination strategies on BVDV control in dairy farms in two districts of Hokkaido, Nemuro and Hiyama. A stochastic model was developed to compare the different control strategies over a 10-year period. The model was individual-based and simulated disease dynamics both within and between herds. Parameters included in the model were obtained from the literature, the Hokkaido government and the Japanese Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. Nine different scenarios were compared as follows: no control, test-and-cull strategies based on antigen testing of either calves or only cattle entering common pastures, vaccination of all adult cattle or only cattle entering shared pastures and combinations thereof. The results indicate that current strategies for BVDV control in Hokkaido slightly reduced the number of BVDV-infected animals; however, alternative strategies such as testing all calves and culling any positives or vaccinating all susceptible adult animals dramatically reduced those. To our knowledge, this is the first report regarding the comparison of the effectiveness between the current strategies in Hokkaido and the alternative strategies for BVDV control measures.


pmid: 2158848
title: Insemination of susceptible and preimmunized cattle with bovine viral diarrhoea virus infected semen
abstract: Six susceptible and six preimmunized heifers were inseminated with semen from a bull persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). They had poor rates of conception, but ultimately, all but one conceived. Eleven, apparently normal, calves were born, none of which showed evidence of BVDV infection.


pmid: 1662040
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus-specific bovine monoclonal antibody
abstract: A bovine monoclonal antibody specific for bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) recognized all the reference strains of BVDV and over 90% of the field isolates tested. It neutralized the virus and precipitated a 56 k-58 k viral protein.


pmid: 15456165
title: Detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in specimens from cattle in South Africa and possible association with clinical disease
abstract: Studies covering all aspects of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) have been conducted in several countries in Europe, Asia and America. In southern Africa, more information is required about the nature of BVDV infection, the prevalence of different strains and the economic importance of the disease. The presence of BVDV in southern Africa has been known since the early 1970s through serological surveys but few reports confirming its presence by virus isolation and correlation with clinical disease are available. Specimens (n = 312) collected in 1998/99, from live and dead cattle from different farming systems, were obtained from private practitioners, feedlot consultants and abattoirs throughout the country. Specimens (n = 37) from African buffaloes (Syncerus caffer) in the Kruger National Park were also included. All specimens were processed for virus isolation in cell culture with confirmation by means of immunofluorescent antibody tests and some also by means of an antigen capture ELISA. BVDV was isolated from 15 (4.7%) cattle and were all noncytopathic biotypes. BVDV was not detected in 37 lymph nodes obtained from buffaloes in the Kruger National Park. Of the clinical signs in cattle from which virus were isolated, respiratory signs was the most frequent (10/15), followed by diarrhoea (5/15). Abortion, congenital malformations, haemorrhagic diarrhoea and poor growth were also included as criteria for selection of animals for specimen collection, but no BVD viruses were isolated from cattle manifesting these clinical signs.


pmid: 12821472
title: Detection of inhibition of bovine viral diarrhea virus by aromatic cationic molecules
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an economically significant pathogen of cattle and a problematic contaminant in the laboratory. BVDV is often used as an in vitro model for hepatitis C virus during drug discovery efforts. Aromatic dicationic molecules have exhibited inhibitory activity against several RNA viruses. Thus, the purpose of this research was to develop and apply a method for screening the aromatic cationic compounds for in vitro cytotoxicity and activity against a noncytopathic strain of BVDV. The screening method evaluated the concentration of BVDV in medium and cell lysates after 72 h of cell culture in the presence of either a 25 or 5 microM concentration of the test compound. Five of 93 screened compounds were selected for further determination of inhibitory (90 and 50%) and cytotoxic (50 and 10%) concentration endpoints. The screening method identified compounds that exhibited inhibition of BVDV at nanomolar concentrations while exhibiting no cytotoxicity at 25 microM concentrations. The leading compounds require further investigation to determine their mechanism of action, in vivo activity, and specific activity against hepatitis C virus.


pmid: 17459862
title: Failure to detect bovine viral diarrhea virus in necropsied farm-raised white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in Pennsylvania
abstract: Between January 1 and December 31, 2005 gross and histologic examinations were performed on carcasses of 61 farm-raised white-tailed deer originating from Pennsylvania. Single-tube real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (real-time RT-PCR) for the detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 (BVDV-1) and type 2 (BVDV-2) was performed on each animal. Virus isolation was performed on tissue samples from 25 of 61 animals. Immunohistochemical (IHC) staining of ear-notch skin to identify BVDV antigen was performed on each animal. All tissues samples tested negative for both BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 by real-time RT-PCR, virus isolation, and IHC. Gross or histopathologic lesions suggestive of BVDV infection were not detected. Results of this study suggest that BVD is not a common cause of mortality in farm-raised white-tailed deer in Pennsylvania.


pmid: 16917738
title: Genetic variability of bovine viral diarrhoea virus subtypes at 3'-nontranslated region
abstract: Ten isolates belonging to different BVDV-1 subtypes and three BVDV-2 isolates were studied in 3'-nontranslated region (3'-NTR) by sequencing of PCR products and comparative computer-assisted nucleotide sequence analysis. The alignment of nucleotide sequences revealed that all BVDV-1 isolates except BVDV-1a isolates represented by NADL strain were characterised with a deletion of 38 nucleotides in the variable region located after the stop codon. For all BVDV-1 subtypes, a constant region at the end of viral genome was highly conserved. The variable and constant regions with no significant insertions or deletions were also identified in BVDV-2 isolates. The poly AT reach region was situated at different locations in both pestiviruses.


pmid: 16213612
title: Ten years of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) control in Norway: a cost-benefit analysis
abstract: A retrospective cost-benefit analysis was carried out on the Norwegian bovine virus diarrhoea (BVD) control and eradication strategy, for the years 1993-2003. Information regarding the control cost input parameters was gathered from the cattle industry (TINE Norwegian Dairies, GENO Breeding and AI association, and GILDE Norwegian Meat), The National Animal Health Authorities and The Veterinary Institute. We accounted for variable costs (both direct costs associated with the control, and those costs carried by the farmers as a consequence of the control program). The benefit was estimated as the difference between the assumed losses without control - represented overall as 10% increase of the observed 1993 BVD virus infection level - and the observed losses during the control period. An estimate of the financial losses associated with the BVD virus (BVDV) infection was based on studies of the herd level effects on health, reproduction, and production in dairy herds with evidence of recent BVDV infection. We used a stochastic simulation model to account for the total uncertainty in both the control cost and financial loss estimates. The annual net benefits over the 10 years of BVD control were discounted to a 1993 net present value (NPV). The median NPV of the BVD control, nationally, was estimated at 130 million NOK with a distribution of the NPV ranging from +51 to +201 million NOK (5th and 95th percentiles, respectively). Out of the total control costs the farmers and the farmer-owned industries (the co-operatives) had carried about 62% of these costs; however, the farmers were also the main beneficiaries. The Norwegian experience shows a robust cost-efficiency for a BVDV eradication strategy; this stands in sharp contrast to earlier studies where the results were not supportive. Even though every cattle population and country is unique, the Norwegian findings and experiences should have wider implications.


pmid: 21908280
title: Use of sentinel serology in a Bovine viral diarrhea virus eradication program
abstract: Forty-seven cattle management groups from 36 herds in a regional Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) eradication program were selected to evaluate serology as a tool to detect herd infection with BVDV. Serum samples were obtained from 5 non-vaccinated sentinel calves ≥ 6 months old in each management group and virus neutralizing (VN) antibody titers against BVDV genotypes 1 and 2 were determined. A herd was considered positive if 2 or more sentinel calves had VN antibody titers ≥ 128 to either genotype. Results were compared to individual animal testing of all available calves by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) on skin biopsy samples. In 1 management group from 1 herd (n = 24), 3 sentinel calves had VN antibody titers ≥ 128. Three ear notch samples from that herd were positive for BVDV on RT-PCR assay. All other management groups were negative for BVDV. In the present study, the herd sensitivity of sentinel serology was 100% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.05-1.0) and herd specificity was 100% (95% CI: 0.90-1.0). The κ value for agreement between sentinel serology and RT-PCR was 1.0 (95% CI: 1.0-1.0). Preliminary results suggest that sentinel animal serology can be utilized in a BVDV eradication program to provide an accurate and efficient evaluation of herd status.


pmid: 19128896
title: Seroprevalence and risk factors for the presence of ruminant pestiviruses in the Dutch swine population
abstract: Swine can be infected with classical swine fever virus (CSFV), as well as ruminant pestiviruses: bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), and Border disease virus (BDV). Cross-reactions between pestiviruses occur, both regarding protective immunity and in diagnostic tests. The presence of BVDV and BDV in a swine population may thus affect the transmission of CSFV, but also the diagnosis of a CSFV infection. In this study, the seroprevalence against BVDV and BDV in two categories of swine, sows and finishing pigs, in the Netherlands was determined. Furthermore, several risk factors, associated with the presence of swine and ruminants on the same farm or in the immediate surroundings, were evaluated. In sows, the seroprevalence against BVDV was 2.5% on the animal level, and 11.0% on herd level. In finishing pigs these prevalences were 0.42% and 3.2%, respectively. Antibodies against BDV were found in three sows only. Risk factors, associated with a BVDV-seropositive status in breeding pigs, were the presence of cattle on the same premises and a high density of sheep and/or goats herds in a radius of 3km. While BVDV and BDV hardly pose any threat to the swine population themselves, knowledge, and therefore regular monitoring, on the presence of these viruses in the swine population is important with respect to CSF eradication. It will allow for a better interpretation of diagnostic test results, both in terms of possible false positives and false negatives, but may also bring about additional measures or surveillance protocols in times of CSF outbreaks to avoid surprises caused by cross-reactivity with ruminant pestiviruses.


pmid: 17005300
title: Noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus can persist in testicular tissue after vaccination of peri-pubertal bulls but prevents subsequent infection
abstract: The objectives of this research were to evaluate the risk of prolonged testicular infection as a consequence of vaccination of peri-pubertal bulls with a modified-live, noncytopathic strain of BVDV and to assess vaccine efficacy in preventing prolonged testicular infections after a subsequent acute infection. Seronegative, peri-pubertal bulls were vaccinated subcutaneously with an approximate minimum immunizing dose or a 10x standard dose of modified-live, noncytopathic BVDV or were maintained as unvaccinated controls. Forty-nine days after vaccination, all bulls were intranasally inoculated with a noncytopathic field strain of BVDV. Semen and testicular biopsies collected after vaccination and challenge were assayed for BVDV using virus isolation, reverse transcription-nested PCR, or immunohistochemistry and the identity of viral strains was determined by nucleotide sequencing of PCR products. The vaccine strain of BVDV was detected in testicular tissue of vaccinated bulls as long as 134 days after immunization. Prolonged testicular infections with the challenge strain were detected only in unvaccinated bulls as long as 85 days after challenge. Whereas vaccination caused prolonged testicular infection in some bulls, it did prevent subsequent infection of testicular tissue with the challenge strain. This research demonstrates that subcutaneous vaccination of naïve, peri-pubertal bulls with a noncytopathic, modified-live strain of BVDV can result in prolonged viral replication within testicular tissue. The risk for these prolonged testicular infections to cause venereal transmission of BVDV or subfertility is likely to be low but requires further investigation.


pmid: 9633045
title: Differentiation of types 1a, 1b and 2 bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) by PCR
abstract: There are two genotypes among bovine viral diarrhoea viruses (BVDV), BVDV1 and BVDV2. Within the BVDV1 genotype there are two distinct subgenotypes, BVD1a and BVD1b. Serology and monoclonal antibody binding are used to differentiate BVDV from classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and border disease virus (BDV), the other members of the Pestivirus genus. These techniques are less useful in the differentiation and segregation of viruses within the BVDV species. In this study, differential polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification has been evaluated as a tool for segregating BVDV isolates into genotypes and subgenotypes. Polymerase chain reaction primers were selected based on the comparison of 5' untranslated region sequences from CSVF, BDV, BVDV1a, BVDV1b and BVDV2. Differential PCR tests were validated using 345 viruses isolated from cattle and small ruminants that had previously been segregated into genotypes and subgenotypes. There was 100% correlation between segregation by differential PCR and the previous segregation of these viral isolates.


pmid: 25323831
title: Not all cows are epidemiologically equal: quantifying the risks of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) transmission through cattle movements
abstract: Many economically important cattle diseases spread between herds through livestock movements. Traditionally, most transmission models have assumed that all purchased cattle carry the same risk of generating outbreaks in the destination herd. Using data on bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in Scotland as a case example, this study provides empirical and theoretical evidence that the risk of disease transmission varies substantially based on the animal and herd demographic characteristics at the time of purchase. Multivariable logistic regression analysis revealed that purchasing pregnant heifers and open cows sold with a calf at foot were associated with an increased risk of beef herds being seropositive for BVDV. Based on the results from a dynamic within-herd simulation model, these findings may be partly explained by the age-related probability of animals being persistently infected with BVDV as well as the herd demographic structure at the time of animal introductions. There was also evidence that an epidemiologically important network statistic, "betweenness centrality" (a measure frequently associated with the potential for herds to acquire and transmit disease), was significantly higher for herds that supplied these particular types of replacement beef cattle. The trends for dairy herds were not as clear, although there was some evidence that open heifers and open lactating cows were associated with an increased risk of BVDV. Overall, these findings have important implications for developing simulation models that more accurately reflect the industry-level transmission dynamics of infectious cattle diseases.


pmid: 23675947
title: Persistent infections after natural transmission of bovine viral diarrhoea virus from cattle to goats and among goats
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is an economically important pathogen of cattle worldwide. Infection of a pregnant animal may lead to persistent infection of the foetus and birth of a persistently infected (PI) calf that sheds the virus throughout its life. However, BVD viruses are not strictly species specific. BVDV has been isolated from many domesticated and wild ruminants. This is of practical importance as virus reservoirs in non-bovine hosts may hamper BVDV control in cattle. A goat given as a social companion to a BVDV PI calf gave birth to a PI goat kid. In order to test if goat to goat infections were possible, seronegative pregnant goats were exposed to the PI goat. In parallel, seronegative pregnant goats were kept together with the PI calf. Only the goat to goat transmission resulted in the birth of a next generation of BVDV PI kids whereas all goats kept together with the PI calf aborted. To our knowledge, this is the first report which shows that a PI goat cannot only transmit BVD virus to other goats but that such transmission may indeed lead to the birth of a second generation of PI goats. Genetic analyses indicated that establishment in the new host species may be associated with step-wise adaptations in the viral genome. Thus, goats have the potential to be a reservoir for BVDV. However, the PI goats showed growth retardation and anaemia and their survival under natural conditions remains questionable.


pmid: 24680957
title: Substituted 2,6-bis(benzimidazol-2-yl)pyridines: a novel chemical class of pestivirus inhibitors that targets a hot spot for inhibition of pestivirus replication in the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase
abstract: 2,6-Bis(benzimidazol-2-yl)pyridine (BBP/CSFA-0) was identified in a CPE-based screening as a selective inhibitor of the in vitro bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) replication. The EC50-values for the inhibition of BVDV-induced cytopathic (CPE) effect, viral RNA synthesis and the production of infectious virus were 0.3±0.1μM, 0.05±0.01μM and 0.3±0.04μM, respectively. Furthermore, BBP/CSFA-0 inhibits the in vitro replication of the classical swine fever virus (CSFV) with an EC50 of 0.33±0.25μM. BBP/CSFA-0 proved in vitro inactive against the hepatitis C virus, that belongs like BVDV and CSFV to the family of Flaviviridae. Modification of the substituents on the two 1H-benzimidazole groups of BBP resulted in analogues equipotent in anti-BVDV activity (EC50=0.7±0.1μM), devoid of cytotoxicity (S.I.=142). BBP resistant BVDV was selected for and was found to carry the I261M mutation in the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp). Likewise, BBP-resistant CSFV was selected for; this variant carries either an I261N or a P262A mutation in NS5B. Molecular modeling revealed that I261 and P262 are located in a small cavity near the fingertip domain of the pestivirus polymerase. BBP-resistant BVDV and CSFV proved to be cross-resistant to earlier reported pestivirus inhibitors (BPIP, AG110 and LZ37) that are known to target the same region of the RdRp. BBP did not inhibit the in vitro activity of recombinant BVDV RdRp but inhibited the activity of BVDV replication complexes (RCs). BBP interacts likely with the fingertip of the pestivirus RdRp at the same position as BPIP, AG110 and LZ37. This indicates that this region is a "hot spot" for inhibition of pestivirus replication.


pmid: 23929474
title: Genome Sequence of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Strain 10JJ-SKR, Belonging to Genotype 1d
abstract: Here, we report the complete genome sequence of a bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) belonging to genotype 1d, strain 10JJ-SKR, which was isolated from cattle. The complete genome is 12,267 nucleotides (nt) in length, with a single large open reading frame. This is the first report of a BVDV belonging to genotype 1d and will enable further study of the molecular and epidemiological characteristics of this virus.


pmid: 2763466
title: Molecular cloning and nucleotide sequence of the genome of hog cholera virus
abstract: A cDNA clone derived from genomic RNA of hog cholera virus (HCV) was identified using an oligonucleotide complementary to the RNA encoding a hexapeptide from the putative RNA-dependent RNA polymerase of the closely related bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). This clone served as a probe for screening different size-selected cDNA libraries. After molecular cloning and nucleotide sequencing the HCV genome was shown to consist of 12,284 nucleotides containing one long open reading frame. Sequence comparison revealed a high degree of homology between HCV and BVDV genomic RNAs. With respect to HCV the genome of BVDV contains an insertion coding for 90 amino acids.


pmid: 3016976
title: Evidence for an immunocompromising effect of bovine pestivirus on bovid herpesvirus 1 vaccination
abstract: Five calves were given live intranasal vaccine against bovid herpesvirus 1 (BHV1) two days after intranasal inoculation of bovine pestivirus (BVDV). Another 5 were vaccinated in the absence of BVDV. Control unvaccinated groups were also maintained. All calves were challenged with virulent BHV1. The unvaccinated calves developed signs of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR) and both vaccinated groups showed a similar degree of clinical protection from IBR. Those given BVDV before vaccination shed up to 140 times more BHV1 (P less than 0.01) in the nasal mucus following challenge than those which had received BHV1 vaccine alone. The epidemiological significance of this is discussed.


pmid: 10567644
title: Vaccination of cattle with a DNA plasmid encoding the bovine viral diarrhoea virus major glycoprotein E2
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is an economically important pathogen of cattle that is ubiquitously distributed worldwide. In this study, cattle were immunized by intramuscular injections with plasmid DNA expressing the BVDV type 1 major glycoprotein E2. Animals either received injections of naked DNA (N-DNA) or DNA in cationic liposomes (L-DNA). Both DNA preparations induced virus-specific neutralizing antibodies in vaccinates, although the response was much lower in N-DNA-immunized animals. N-DNA-vaccinated animals also showed virus-specific lymphocyte proliferation responses to type 1, live BVDV in vitro, whereas L-DNA vaccination induced no such responses. After 16 weeks, DNA-vaccinated and mock-vaccinated animals were challenged with a USDA-certified BVDV type 1 strain. Four significant observations were made: (1) N-DNA-vaccinated calves showed limited protection from virus challenge, (2) L-DNA-vaccinated animals did not show any signs of protection, (3) the challenge induced strong memory responses in the production of serum neutralizing antibodies to both genotypes (type 1 and 2 of BVDV), and (4) the challenge induced a mucosal memory response in nasal secretions of both L- and N-DNA-vaccinated animals.


pmid: 9499097
title: Characterization of an autonomous subgenomic pestivirus RNA replicon
abstract: As an initial approach to define the requirements for the replication of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a member of the Flaviviridae family with a positive-strand RNA genome, full-length genomic and subgenomic RNAs were originated by in vitro transcription of diverse BVDV cDNA constructs and transfected into eucaryotic host cells. RNA replication was measured either directly by an RNase protection method or by monitoring the synthesis of viral protein. When full-length BVDV cRNA was initially applied, the synthesis of negative-strand RNA intermediates as well as progeny positive-strand RNA was detected posttransfection in the cytoplasm of the host cells. Compared to the negative-strand RNA intermediate, an excess of positive-strand RNA was synthesized. Surprisingly, a subgenomic RNA molecule, DI9c, corresponding to a previously characterized defective interfering particle, was found to support both steps of RNA replication in the absence of a helper virus as well, thus functioning as an autonomous replicon. DI9c comprises the 5' and 3' untranslated regions of the BVDV genome and the coding regions of the autoprotease Npro and the nonstructural proteins NS3, NS4A, NS4B, NS5A, and NS5B. Most interestingly, the NS2 polypeptide was thus determined to be nonessential for RNA replication. As expected, deletion of the genomic 3' end as well as abolition of the catalytic function of the virus-encoded serine protease resulted in DI9c molecules that were unable to replicate. Deletion of the entire Npro gene also destroyed the ability of DI9c molecules to replicate. On the other hand, DI9c derivatives in which the 5' third of the Npro gene was fused to a ubiquitin gene, allowing the proteolytic release of NS3 in trans, turned out to be replication competent. These results suggest that the RNA sequence located at the 5' end of the open reading frame exerts an essential role during BVDV replication. Replication of DI9c and DI9c derivatives was found not to be limited to host cells of bovine origin, indicating that cellular factors functioning as potential parts of the viral replication machinery are well conserved between different mammalian cells. Our data provide an important step toward the ready identification and characterization of viral factors and genomic elements involved in the life cycle of pestiviruses. The implications for other Flaviviridae and, in particular, the BVDV-related human hepatitis C virus are discussed.


pmid: 8810006
title: Antigenically different pestivirus strains induce congenital infection in sheep: a model for bovine virus diarrhea virus vaccine efficacy studies
abstract: To study the efficacy and safety of bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV) vaccines there is need for a valid challenge model. We investigated whether sheep can be used in such a challenge model. We intranasally inoculated six groups (A-F) of seronegative sheep at day 49 of gestation with either of five antigenically different BVDV strains and one border disease virus strain. A seventh group (G) was housed for 10 days with a persistently infected calf and an eighth group (H) served as control. From each group half of the sheep were killed at 2 weeks, and half at 4 weeks after infection. For virus isolation five organs were collected from the sheep and seven from the fetuses. All sheep of groups A and H remained seronegative in the ELISA and in the serum neutralization test. At 2 and 4 weeks after infection virus was isolated from almost all fetal organs in six groups. In group A and in the control group no virus was isolated from the fetal organs. The virus distribution patterns in fetuses from sheep housed with the persistently infected calf or intranasally inoculated with the same strain were similar. We concluded that (i) antigenically different BVDV strains can induce congenital infection in sheep and that (ii) the consequences of a contact infection were similar to those after intranasal infection. In a second experiment we infected two groups of seronegative sheep with one of the strains used in the first experiment, before mating. A control group was left uninfected. The sheep were served and all sheep were challenged with antigenically homologous or heterologous BVDV at day 49 of pregnancy. Three weeks after challenge, sheep were killed and the procedure as in the first experiment was followed. None of the fetuses sheep were virus positive whereas all fetuses of the control sheep were virus positive. Hence, the immune response after BVDV infection protects fetuses against homologous and heterologous infection during pregnancy. Sheep may therefore be used in vaccination-challenge experiments to evaluate BVDV vaccine efficacy in preventing congenital infection.


pmid: 20189812
title: Pharmacophore modeling, resistant mutant isolation, docking, and MM-PBSA analysis: Combined experimental/computer-assisted approaches to identify new inhibitors of the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)
abstract: Starting from a series of our new 2-phenylbenzimidazole derivatives, shown to be selectively and potently active against the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), we developed a hierarchical combined experimental/molecular modeling strategy to explore the drug leads for the BVDV RNA-dependent RNA-polymerase. Accordingly, a successful 3D pharmacophore model was developed, characterized by distinct chemical features that may be responsible for the activity of the inhibitors. BVDV mutants resistant to lead compounds in our series were then isolated, and the mutant residues on the viral molecular target, the RNA-dependent RNA-polymerase, were identified. Docking procedures upon pharmacophoric constraints and mutational data were carried out, and the binding affinity of all active compounds for the RdRp were estimated. Given the excellent agreement between in silico and in vitro data, this procedure is currently being employed in the design a new series of more selective and potent BVDV inhibitors.


pmid: 33916636
title: Clinical Analysis for Long-Term Sporadic Bovine Viral Diarrhea Transmitted by Calves with an Acute Infection of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus 2
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a viral pathogen associated with serious problems in the cattle industry. Cattle persistently infected (PI) with BVDV are mild or asymptomatic; however, they become a source of BVDV transmission to other cattle. Hence, it is important to rapidly identify and remove the PI animals from cattle herds. Whereas cattle acutely infected (AI) with BVDV have various symptoms, yet they generally recover within 3 weeks. However, there is a paucity of information concerning clinical characteristics of AI cattle. Further accumulation of information would be required to accurately diagnose AI cattle with BVDV. Here, we attempted to obtain valuable information via various analyses using a case report of BVD outbreak that occurred for approximately four months in Iwate Prefecture in 2017. Using eight calves and multiple tests (real-time RT-PCR, virus isolation, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and virus neutralization assay) over 6 weeks, we diagnosed the continuous BVD outbreak as an acute infection and not a persistent one. Additionally, we revealed that the sporadic case was caused by low pathogenic BVDV2 via BVDV genotyping and phylogenetic analysis. The data suggest that BVDV2 AI animals might also be a source of transmission to susceptible calves; hence, it might persist for a long period owing to multiple AI animals. These findings provide useful information to diagnose AI and PI cattle with BVDV in the field.


pmid: 33002072
title: Comparison of milk production of dairy cows vaccinated with a live double deleted BVDV vaccine and non-vaccinated dairy cows cohabitating in commercial herds endemically infected with BVD virus
abstract: Daily milk production and reproductive performance of cows vaccinated with a live double-deleted Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) vaccine were compared to those of non-vaccinated cows, cohabitating in endemic BVDV herds. All animals in the treatment group were vaccinated on study day 0 irrespective of lactation or gestation status, while control animals did not receive any treatment. 1463 animals were enrolled in the study from four different farms in three different countries (UK, Italy, France). Endemic presence of BVDV in study herds was demonstrated by the detection of BVDV in the bulk tank milk, and seroconversion was evaluated at the beginning of the study. For individual animals, the day of calving was taken to be the start of lactation for the calculation of days in milk (DIM). The standard lactation period of 305 days was divided into three periods: early lactation (EL, from DIM 8 to DIM 102), mid lactation (ML, from DIM 103 to DIM 204 and late lactation (LL, from DIM 205 to DIM 305). For each farm and each lactation period, a mixed model statistical analysis was performed with daily milk production as response, and group, day as well as the interaction between those two factors as fixed factors. Chi-square test was used to compare abortion rate and prolonged inter-oestrous interval rate between treatment and control groups. A significant increase in milk production in the vaccinated group was observed in farms 1 (1.023 L/day) and 3 (0.611 L/day) during EL (p<0.001) and in farm 2 (1.799 L/day) during ML (P<0.001). In addition, at farm 2, vaccinated cows produced more milk than non-vaccinated cows starting from 80 DIM. No differences were found between groups in abortion rates or prolonged inter-oestrous interval rates. Data demonstrate that cows in herds endemically infected with BVDV and vaccinated with live double-deleted BVDV vaccine produce more milk; the difference in milk production occurs during early lactation.


pmid: 25118572
title: Development and evaluation of a truncated recombinant NS3 antigen-based indirect ELISA for detection of pestivirus antibodies in sheep and goats
abstract: The aim of this study was to develop an indirect ELISA using the helicase domain of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) NS3 protein instead of full-length NS3 protein for detection of BVDV and BDV antibodies in sheep and goats and its validation by comparing its sensitivity and specificity with virus neutralization test (VNT) as the reference test. The purified 50 kDa recombinant NS3 protein was used as the coating antigen in the ELISA. The optimal concentration of antigen was 320 ng/well at a serum dilution of 1:20 and the optimal positive cut-off optical density value was 0.40 based on test results of 418 VNT negative sheep and goat sera samples. When 569 serum samples from sheep (463) and goats (106) were tested, the ELISA showed a sensitivity of 91.71% and specificity of 94.59% with BVDV VNT. A good correlation (93.67%) was observed between the two tests. It showed a sensitivity of 85% and specificity of 86.6% with VNT in detecting BDV antibody positive or negative samples. This study demonstrates the efficacy of truncated recombinant NS3 antigen based ELISA for seroepidemiological study of pestivirus infection in sheep and goats.


pmid: 21629418
title: The effects of exposure of susceptible alpacas to alpacas persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Reports of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections in alpacas have been increasing in recent years but much is still unknown about the mechanisms of disease in this species. This report characterizes the transmission of BVDV from persistently infected (PI) alpacas to BVDV naïve alpacas, documents shedding patterns, and characterizes the disease effects in both PI and transiently infected alpacas. Two PI alpacas shed BVDV Type 1b virus in most body fluids, and commonly available diagnostic tests verified their status. Bovine viral diarrhea virus Type 1b transient infections produced only mild signs of disease in BVDV naïve alpacas. Viremia was detected in whole blood, but viral shedding during the acute phase was not detected and antibody appeared to be protective upon re-exposure to the virus.


pmid: 20708238
title: Large scale in vivo risk assessment of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) transmission through transfer of bovine embryos produced via somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT)
abstract: The objective was to use the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) as a model to assess the risk of infectious disease transmission in the system of in vitro embryo production and transfer via somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) technology. The risks of BVDV transmission in the SCNT embryo production were previously evaluated. In that in vitro study, following standard operating procedures (SOP), including pre-nuclear transfer donor cell testing, oocyte decontamination and virus-free cell and embryo culture conditions, SCNT embryos produced were free of detectable viral RNA. The current study focused on the evaluation of the potential risk of disease transmission from SCNT embryos to recipients, and the risk of producing persistently infected animals via SCNT embryo transfer. Blood samples were collected from 553 recipients of SCNT embryos and 438 cloned calves and tested for the presence of BVDV viral RNA via a sensitive real time PCR method. All samples tested were negative. These results, in conjunction with the previous in vitro study, confirmed that the established SCNT embryo production and transfer system is safe and presents no detectable risk of disease transmission.


pmid: 17652435
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus infection of alpacas (Vicugna pacos) in the UK
abstract: Three alpacas (Vicugna pacos) aged two to 22 months with a history of illthrift and diarrhoea were examined postmortem, and tissues were collected for histology, including immunohistochemical labelling for pestivirus antigen, virus isolation and TaqMan reverse transcriptase-pcr assay. Blood samples from two clinical cases and the remaining herd members were tested for bovine viral diarrhoea virus (bvdv) antibody by serum neutralisation, antigen detection and pcr assay. The three affected alpacas were positive for bvdv by pcr of splenic tissue and/or heparinised blood. Non-cytopathic bvdv was isolated from several tissues and plasma of two of the alpacas. dna sequencing and phylogenetic analysis of the viral genome from the pcr product showed that the bvdv was of subgenotype 1b. Immunohistochemical examination of brain tissue was positive in two cases, consistent with a persistent infection. bvdv antibodies were detected in 16 of 25 clinically unaffected alpacas. There was no evidence of persistent infection in the in-contact animals. The source of the infection was not determined.


pmid: 12898325
title: Characterisation of a pestivirus isolated from persistently infected mousedeer ( Tragulus javanicus)
abstract: Serum samples from the male Mousedeer A and the mother, father and sister of A were tested for bovine virus diarrhoea viruses (BVDV) by isolation, and for BVDV antibodies by blocking ELISA and homologous neutralisation test. Further, RNA was extracted and tested by RT-PCR protocol analysing the 5'-untranslated region and the E2 gene of pestivirus. The RT-PCR products were subsequently sequenced. Mousedeer A was positive in virus isolation on three occasions (days 1, 19 and 40) and by RT-PCR. The sister and mother of Mousedeer A were also found virus positive by isolation and RT-PCR. Mousedeer A, its sister and its mother, all had an antibody neutralisation titer below 10. The father of A was virus negative but was positive in the blocking antibody ELISA and had a high neutralisation antibody titer. The repeated detection of BVDV in Mousedeer A, the high amount of virus in serum, the lack of antibodies and the virus positive family members documented that the mousedeer were persistently infected with a pestivirus. The father of A probably had an acute infection resulting in antibodies to pestivirus and viral clearance. Sequence analysis and phylogenetic analysis revealed that the mousedeer pestivirus was closely related to BVDV Type 1f. The existences of persistently infected animals in non-domestic species have great implications for BVDV eradication campaigns in cattle.


pmid: 12073495
title: Leukopenia and thrombocytopenia in pigs after infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus-2 (BVDV-2)
abstract: The aim of this study was to investigate whether bovine viral diarrhoea virus-2 (BVDV-2) is pathogenic for pigs, which organs become infected and whether or to which extent the virus is excreted into the environment. Ten pigs were observed for clinical reactions after infection with a BVDV-2 strain, that has been shown to be pathogenic in calves under experimental conditions. Samples were taken to monitor thrombocyte and leukocyte counts as well as antibody development. Post mortem examinations were performed at 7, 11 and 27 days after infection. Tissue samples were collected for virus isolation, histological and immunohistological examination. All ten pigs became infected and BVDV could be re-isolated from the lymphocytes, the plasma and different lymphatic organs. The infection passed clinically inapparent, apart from a slight increase in body temperature in some animals. Some animals developed a slight leukopenia and/or thrombocytopenia. There were no macroscopic or histological lesions observed that could specifically be related to the inoculation of BVDV-2. With respect to all parameters studied, the infection and the consequences thereof were clearly less pronounced in pigs as compared to cattle, the natural host. Our results indicate, that pigs infected with BVDV-2 might develop antibodies that cross-react in tests for antibodies against classical swine fever virus.


pmid: 11483222
title: High-level expression of hepatitis C virus (HCV) structural proteins by a chimeric HCV/BVDV genome propagated as a BVDV pseudotype
abstract: A chimeric cDNA genome was constructed in which the core, E1 and E2 genes of hepatitis C virus (HCV) replaced the core, E(rns), E1 and E2 genes of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). High levels of HCV structural proteins were expressed in a small number of human or bovine cells following transfection with chimeric RNA. However, in one cell line, bovine embryonic trachea cells [EBTr(A)], the number of cells expressing HCV proteins increased to greater than 70% following serial passage of culture medium. These cells were persistently infected with a non-cytopathogenic BVDV helper virus. In these cells, the chimeric genome was packaged into infectious particles that accumulated in the culture medium at a titer as high as 10(7)-10(9) genome equivalents per ml. The virus particles were pseudotypes, because they were neutralized by anti-BVDV but not by anti-HCV.


pmid: 10920480
title: Lack of virus transmission from bovine viral diarrhoea virus infected calves to susceptible peers
abstract: None of 14 calves not previously exposed to BVDV became infected after being forced to have nose-to-nose contact with a group of 5 calves primarily infected with BVDV. These were 5 male calves primarily infected with a type I BVDV strain, after nose-to-nose contact with a persistently viraemic calf. All 5 became infected and were clinically affected. They were slightly depressed and pyretic at 8-9 days post-infection, with a body temperature of up to 41.6 degrees C, but no medical treatment was required. Seroconversions to BVDV were detected in these calves at 14 to 21 days post-infection. The 14 healthy calves, proved to be free from BVD virus--as well as antibodies, were introduced 2 by 2 into the group of 5 primarily infected calves on days 4, 7, 14, 21, 28, 35 and 42 after the 5 calves had been in contact with the persistently BVDV-infected calf. Each pair of calves stayed within the primarily infected group for 2 days. None of these 14 calves seroconverted to BVDV.


pmid: 9367363
title: Inhibition of pestivirus infection in cell culture by envelope proteins E(rns) and E2 of classical swine fever virus: E(rns) and E2 interact with different receptors
abstract: Pure preparations of envelope glycoproteins E(rns) and E2 of classical swine fever virus (CSFV) synthesized in insect cells were used to study infection of porcine and bovine cells with the pestiviruses CSFV and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). Almost 100% inhibition of infection of porcine kidney cells with CSFV was produced by 100 microg/ml E(rns). After removal of the virus no E(rns) was needed in the overlay medium (growth medium) to maintain this level of inhibition. In contrast, 100% inhibition of infection of porcine kidney cells with CSFV by 10 microg/ml E2 was only achieved when E2 was added to the overlay medium. When E2 was omitted, a maximum of 50% inhibition was achieved. This indicated that after the virus and E2 were removed from the cells, infection still occurred, by virus particles which were still bound to the cell surface. Treatment with 100 microg/ml E(rns) released these particles from the cell surface. Furthermore, E(rns) bound irreversibly to the surface of cells susceptible or unsusceptible to pestivirus infection and cell-to-cell spread of CSFV was completely inhibited by E2 but not by E(rns). These results demonstrated that E(rns) and E2 interacted with different cell surface receptors. Inhibition of BVDV infection of porcine and bovine cells by CSFV E2 suggested that CSFV E2 and BVDV E2 share an identical receptor. BVDV strain 5250 isolated from pigs was efficiently inhibited by CSFV E(rns), whereas several BVDV strains isolated from cattle were not, suggesting that the conformation of E(rns) plays a role in host tropism.


pmid: 2763466
title: Molecular cloning and nucleotide sequence of the genome of hog cholera virus
abstract: A cDNA clone derived from genomic RNA of hog cholera virus (HCV) was identified using an oligonucleotide complementary to the RNA encoding a hexapeptide from the putative RNA-dependent RNA polymerase of the closely related bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). This clone served as a probe for screening different size-selected cDNA libraries. After molecular cloning and nucleotide sequencing the HCV genome was shown to consist of 12,284 nucleotides containing one long open reading frame. Sequence comparison revealed a high degree of homology between HCV and BVDV genomic RNAs. With respect to HCV the genome of BVDV contains an insertion coding for 90 amino acids.


pmid: 3016976
title: Evidence for an immunocompromising effect of bovine pestivirus on bovid herpesvirus 1 vaccination
abstract: Five calves were given live intranasal vaccine against bovid herpesvirus 1 (BHV1) two days after intranasal inoculation of bovine pestivirus (BVDV). Another 5 were vaccinated in the absence of BVDV. Control unvaccinated groups were also maintained. All calves were challenged with virulent BHV1. The unvaccinated calves developed signs of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR) and both vaccinated groups showed a similar degree of clinical protection from IBR. Those given BVDV before vaccination shed up to 140 times more BHV1 (P less than 0.01) in the nasal mucus following challenge than those which had received BHV1 vaccine alone. The epidemiological significance of this is discussed.


pmid: 9592950
title: The effect of bovine virus diarrhoea virus on reproduction in recently infected Norwegian dairy herds
abstract: A group of 32 dairy herds, recently infected with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV), was compared with a control group consisting of 75 BVDV free herds during a 3-year-period. Variables related to reproduction were registered. Results of multiple antibody examinations in bulk milk as well as samples of milk and blood from younger animals were used to select the herds. The incidence of abortions was statistically significantly different in the 2 groups, while the number of stillbirths, weak born calves, and congenital anomalies was not. Other variables such as percentage of non return, average number of inseminations per cow and calving interval showed during the study a trend to improve in the BVDV group, while they remained stable in the control group.


pmid: 33916636
title: Clinical Analysis for Long-Term Sporadic Bovine Viral Diarrhea Transmitted by Calves with an Acute Infection of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus 2
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a viral pathogen associated with serious problems in the cattle industry. Cattle persistently infected (PI) with BVDV are mild or asymptomatic; however, they become a source of BVDV transmission to other cattle. Hence, it is important to rapidly identify and remove the PI animals from cattle herds. Whereas cattle acutely infected (AI) with BVDV have various symptoms, yet they generally recover within 3 weeks. However, there is a paucity of information concerning clinical characteristics of AI cattle. Further accumulation of information would be required to accurately diagnose AI cattle with BVDV. Here, we attempted to obtain valuable information via various analyses using a case report of BVD outbreak that occurred for approximately four months in Iwate Prefecture in 2017. Using eight calves and multiple tests (real-time RT-PCR, virus isolation, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and virus neutralization assay) over 6 weeks, we diagnosed the continuous BVD outbreak as an acute infection and not a persistent one. Additionally, we revealed that the sporadic case was caused by low pathogenic BVDV2 via BVDV genotyping and phylogenetic analysis. The data suggest that BVDV2 AI animals might also be a source of transmission to susceptible calves; hence, it might persist for a long period owing to multiple AI animals. These findings provide useful information to diagnose AI and PI cattle with BVDV in the field.


pmid: 33002072
title: Comparison of milk production of dairy cows vaccinated with a live double deleted BVDV vaccine and non-vaccinated dairy cows cohabitating in commercial herds endemically infected with BVD virus
abstract: Daily milk production and reproductive performance of cows vaccinated with a live double-deleted Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) vaccine were compared to those of non-vaccinated cows, cohabitating in endemic BVDV herds. All animals in the treatment group were vaccinated on study day 0 irrespective of lactation or gestation status, while control animals did not receive any treatment. 1463 animals were enrolled in the study from four different farms in three different countries (UK, Italy, France). Endemic presence of BVDV in study herds was demonstrated by the detection of BVDV in the bulk tank milk, and seroconversion was evaluated at the beginning of the study. For individual animals, the day of calving was taken to be the start of lactation for the calculation of days in milk (DIM). The standard lactation period of 305 days was divided into three periods: early lactation (EL, from DIM 8 to DIM 102), mid lactation (ML, from DIM 103 to DIM 204 and late lactation (LL, from DIM 205 to DIM 305). For each farm and each lactation period, a mixed model statistical analysis was performed with daily milk production as response, and group, day as well as the interaction between those two factors as fixed factors. Chi-square test was used to compare abortion rate and prolonged inter-oestrous interval rate between treatment and control groups. A significant increase in milk production in the vaccinated group was observed in farms 1 (1.023 L/day) and 3 (0.611 L/day) during EL (p<0.001) and in farm 2 (1.799 L/day) during ML (P<0.001). In addition, at farm 2, vaccinated cows produced more milk than non-vaccinated cows starting from 80 DIM. No differences were found between groups in abortion rates or prolonged inter-oestrous interval rates. Data demonstrate that cows in herds endemically infected with BVDV and vaccinated with live double-deleted BVDV vaccine produce more milk; the difference in milk production occurs during early lactation.


pmid: 25962538
title: Molecular analyses detect natural coinfection of water buffaloes (Bubalus bubalis) with bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) in serologically negative animals
abstract: Infection of water buffaloes (Bubalus bubalis) with bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) has been confirmed in several studies by serological and molecular techniques. In order to determine the presence of persistently infected animals and circulating species and subtypes of BVDV we conducted this study on a buffalo herd, whose habitat was shared with bovine cattle (Bossp.). Our serological results showed a high level of positivity for BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 within the buffalo herd. The molecular analyses of blood samples in serologically negative animals revealed the presence of viral nucleic acid, confirming the existence of persistent infection in the buffaloes. Cloning and sequencing of the 5' UTR of some of these samples revealed the presence of naturally mix-infected buffaloes with at least two different subtypes (1a and 1b), and also with both BVDV species (BVDV-1 and BVDV-2).


pmid: 30086847
title: Spatial and risk factor analysis of bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) virus after the first-year compulsory phase of BVD eradication programme in Northern Ireland
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) causes bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD), which is a contagious pathogen that can have a significant economic impact on cattle industries. In Northern Ireland (NI), the compulsory phase of a BVD eradication programme was implemented in 2016. The aim of this retrospective population based study was to utilize herd-level data after the first year of the compulsory phase (March 2016-March 2017) to determine the spatial distribution and variation of BVDV, to identify clusters of infection, and to quantify some risk factors associated with BVD in NI. Global spatial clustering (autocorrelation) and local spatial hot-spot analyses were used to specify the clustering areas (hot- and cold-spot). A suite of multivariable logistic analyses was performed to estimate the associations of spatial and non-spatial factors (relating to herd characteristics) with the risk of being a BVDV positive herd. Final models were compared by evaluating the model fit and the ability to account for spatial autocorrelation in the study area. There were 17,186 herds included in the analysis. The herd-level prevalence of BVDV was 11.31%. Significant spatial clustering of BVDV positive herds was presented in the central region of NI. A mixed effects logistic model, with a spatial random effect term, was considered the best model. The final model showed that a positive BVDV status during the voluntary phase prior to the compulsory phase started (OR = 2.25; CI 95% = 1.85-2.73), larger herd size (OR = 6.19; CI 95% = 5.22-7.34 for herd size > 100 animals) and a larger number of positive nearest neighbours within 4 km radius (OR = 1.24; CI 95% = 1.05-1.47 for 8-9 neighbours and OR = 1.41; CI 95% = 1.20-1.65 for 10-12 neighbours) were significantly related to the risk of a herd being tested positive for BVDV. The clear spatial pattern from the local spatial clustering analyses could be used for targeted surveillance and control measures by focusing on the central region of NI.


pmid: 24661884
title: Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) in Dairy Cattle: A Matched Case-Control Study
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) causes one of the most important diseases of cattle in terms of economic costs and welfare. The aims were to estimate herd prevalence and to investigate the factors associated with antibodies in bulk tank milk (BTM) in dairy herds through a matched case-control study. To estimate herd prevalence, BTM samples were randomly selected (n = 314) from a population (N = 1604). The true prevalence of BVDV was 24.3% (CI 95% = 20.1-29.3%). For the case-control study, BVDV antibody-positive herds (high antibody titres) were classified as cases (n = 21) and matched (n = 63) by milk production with herds presenting low antibody titres (ratio of 1 : 3). Three multivariable models were built: 1) full model, holding all 21 variables, and two models divided according to empirical knowledge and similarity among variables; 2) animal factor model; and 3) biosecurity model. The full model (model 1) identified: age as a culling criteria (OR = 0.10; CI 95% = 0.02-0.39; P < 0.01); farms that provided milk to other industries previously (OR = 4.13; CI 95% = 1.17-14.49; P = 0.02); and isolation paddocks for ill animals (OR = 0.14; CI 95% = 0.01-0.26; P = 0.02). The biosecurity model revealed a significant association with the use of natural mating (OR = 9.03; CI 95% = 2.14-38.03; P < 0.01); isolation paddocks for ill animals (OR = 0.06; CI 95% = 0.05-0.83; P = 0.03); years providing milk for the same industry (OR = 0.94; CI 95% = 0.91-0.97; P = 0.02); and direct contact over fences among cattle of neighbouring farms (OR = 5.78; CI 95% = 1.41-23.67; P = 0.04). We recommend the application of grouping predictors as a good choice for model building because it could lead to a better understanding of disease-exposure associations.


pmid: 23219984
title: Evaluation of the effectiveness of semen processing techniques to remove bovine viral diarrhea virus from experimentally contaminated semen samples
abstract: The aim of this study was to evaluate the capacity of three semen processing techniques, Percoll gradient centrifugation, Swim-up and a combination of Swim-up and Percoll gradient centrifugation, to reduce the viral load of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in experimentally infected semen samples. The evaluation was performed using two approaches: first, searching for the presence of virus in the processed samples (via virus titration and RT-PCR) and second, ascertaining the possible interference on in vitro embryo production. The sperm count and DNA integrity (Comet assay) of the processed samples were analyzed (Experiment 1). The amount of virus in the processed samples was determined by titration in cell culture (Experiment 2). The samples processed by Swim up/Percoll gradient centrifugation were utilized for in vitro embryo production, and the embryos produced were tested for BVDV by RT-PCR (Experiment 3). Sperm concentration, Comet assay and embryo production were analyzed by chi-squared tests (P<0.05). There was a significant difference between sperm separation techniques when the sperm count and Comet assay were analyzed. The sperm count obtained from the Swim up/Percoll gradient centrifugation group was lower than that obtained in either of the two other groups (Swim up and Percoll gradient centrifugation), and the Comet assay showed that the combination of the two semen processing techniques (Swim up/Percoll gradient) produced a 1.1% prevalence of Comet level 2, which was not observed in the other groups. The BVDV titer (10(6.68)TCID(50)/mL) added to experimentally infected semen samples decreased after Percoll gradient centrifugation to 10(2.3)-10(1)TCID(50)/mL; for the Swim up group, the titer range was 10(3.3)-10(1.87)TCID(50)/mL, and in the Swim up/Percoll gradient centrifugation group, BVDV was undetectable. The decreases in titer varied from 99.9% in the Swim up-processed group to 100% in the Swim up/Percoll gradient centrifugation group. In vitro embryo production displayed similar blastocyst development rates among all groups, and RT-PCR was negative for the produced embryos. The data showed that the combination of Swim up/Percoll gradient centrifugation promoted the elimination of BVDV from the semen samples without damaging spermatozoa cells and also allowed successful in vitro embryo production free of BVDV. Hence, the risk of BVDV contamination is negligible for the embryo recipient.


pmid: 1335308
title: A novel subunit ISCOM vaccine against bovine virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: The preparation and preliminary testing of a subunit ISCOM (immunostimulating complex) vaccine against bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is described. Vaccination of calves with this vaccine yields high neutralising titres against a panel of Danish BVDV field isolates. The serological difference between virus isolates and vaccine strain selection is discussed.


pmid: 22467972
title: Periparturient infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 causes hemorrhagic proctocolitis in a cow
abstract: After 3 cows of a dairy herd had died from severe hemorrhagic diarrhea, a 4th sick cow was transported to the clinic. Blood analyses revealed the complete absence of white blood cells, the presence of a type 1b strain of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and seroconversion to BVDV.


pmid: 26051264
title: Seroprevalence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in Hungary - situation before launching an eradication campaign
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) is a viral disease appearing in various forms and causing high economic losses in the cattle stocks of Hungary. The aim of the present study was to determine the prevalence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in Hungary through a monitoring survey carried out on samples collected in cattle-keeping units throughout the country. Since no such survey had been carried out in Hungary during the last thirty years, our study may serve as a basis for later monitoring investigations aimed at following the progress of an expected eradication campaign of BVD. The tests were carried out using an ELISA method, on a total of 1200 blood samples submitted from 54 cattle herds. The herds had not been vaccinated against BVDV before the sampling. Out of the 1200 samples, 521 proved to be positive (43.4%), 40 gave doubtful result (3.3%) and 639 were negative (53.3%). In some stocks the samples were collected from cows having completed several lactation periods, and therefore the seronegativity indicates the BVDV-free status of the given stock. Moreover, among the positive herds we found a few where the seropositivity rate was rather low (< 5%). According to the results of the survey, a rather high portion (about one third) of the cattle-keeping units of Hungary can be regarded as BVDV free, which ratio is much higher than had been expected on the basis of surveys carried out on a lower number of samples and in smaller regions of the country. Hence, the chances of an eradication campaign launched in the near future, or carried out parallel to the IBR eradication programme, are better than previously expected.


pmid: 24389127
title: Rapid detection of neutralizing antibodies against bovine viral diarrhoea virus using quantitative high-content screening
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is an important cause of morbidity, mortality and economic losses in cattle worldwide. Humoral immunity to BVDV plays a major role in the protection against infection and disease. In vitro serum neutralization tests can quantify humoral responses, but standard protocols are time-consuming and labour-intensive. The objective of this study was to develop a highly sensitive assay based on high-content cell-by-cell screening that is faster and less subjective than the conventional protocols. It can detect a neutralizing antibody response within the first week after infection of an animal, takes less than 24h to complete and excludes operator bias by automated data acquisition and analysis.


pmid: 17822654
title: Testicular hypoplasia in a bull persistently infected with bovine diarrhoea virus
abstract: A bull aged 16 months with bilateral testicular hypoplasia and azoospermia was persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). Viral antigen was detected in serum and semen by ELISA, but the animal was serologically negative. After slaughter, the genital tract was examined histopathologically and by immunohistochemistry, including double immunolabelling with BVDV antibody and either S-100 antibody (for Sertoli cells) or ferritin antibody (for Leydig cells). The seminiferous tubules of both testes were lined by a single layer of Sertoli cells and the germinal epithelium was completely absent except for a few remaining spermatogonia. BVDV antigen was demonstrated (1) in the media of arterial vessel walls of the testis, epididymis, urethra, prostate, and vesicular and bulbourethral glands, (2) in epithelial cells of the ductus epididymidis, the accessory glands and the urethra, and (3) in the testis, mainly in Sertoli cells and to a lesser extent in the spermatogonia that remained, but not in Leydig cells. The testicular hypoplasia was possibly linked to the BVDV infection.


pmid: 11749137
title: Virus neutralising antibodies against 22 bovine viral diarrhoea virus isolates in vaccinated calves
abstract: Seven of nine colostrum deprived calves, free from bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), were vaccinated with a commercially available vaccine containing two inactivated strains of BVDV, an inactivated strain of bovine herpesvirus-1 and modified-live strains of bovine respiratory syncytial virus and para-influenza-3 virus. The two other calves were kept as controls. The virus neutralising (VN) antibodies induced by vaccination were tested against 22 antigenically diverse BVDV isolates, including reference strains and field isolates, both cytopathic and non-cytopathic, as well as genotypes I and II. The strains were isolated in Belgium, France, Germany, the United Kingdom and the USA. While there were variations in the VN titres of the individual calves against all the strains, serum from the seven animals neutralised 20 or more of the strains tested. From the results, it can be concluded that the vaccine can stimulate the production of VN antibodies capable of neutralising a wide range of European and American isolates of BVDV, including genotypes I and II.


pmid: 1645593
title: Comparison of cytopathic and noncytopathic isolates of bovine viral diarrhea virus by oligonucleotide fingerprinting
abstract: The molecular technique of RNA fingerprinting was used to characterize the genomes of 5 isolates of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV): 2 viral pairs from the same animal, BVD-ILN/BVD-ILC and BVD-TGAN/BVD-TGAC, and the cytopathic viral prototype, BVD-NADL. Oligonucleotide patterns from the viruses were compared, and unique and overlapping oligonucleotides were identified. A comparison of the fingerprints indicated that the genome of each virus was distinguishable by the T1 RNase oligonucleotide fingerprinting technique. The greatest similarity observed was between oligonucleotides from BVD-ILC and BVD-ILN. Eighteen large oligonucleotides were conserved in all 5 BVDV isolates studied. We found that within a pair of BVDV, the cytopathic fingerprint was different from the noncytopathic fingerprint, indicating that cytopathic and noncytopathic BVDV may be distinct viruses.


pmid: 2162162
title: Specific sequence amplification of bovine viral diarrhoea virus nucleic acid
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) causes infection of cattle worldwide and is a common contaminant of cell cultures in the laboratory. Methods of diagnosis for BVDV are time-consuming and inconsistent. We describe the development of an in vitro test based on enzymatic DNA amplification with Thermus aquaticus DNA polymerase of sequences of BVDV cDNA reverse transcribed from viral RNA. Specific sequences were amplified from infected cell cultures and clinical material using laboratory and field strains of BVDV including both cytopathic and non-cytopathic isolates. Both plus and minus strands of viral RNA can act as suitable templates for cDNA synthesis prior to sequence amplification. Internal restriction digest of amplified sequences and the co-amplification of multiple sequences increased the specificity of the reaction. The significance of the technique in relation to the diagnosis and understanding of strain differences is also discussed.


pmid: 2844971
title: Comparisons of the pestivirus bovine viral diarrhoea virus with members of the flaviviridae
abstract: The molecular features of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), a member of the Pestivirus genus currently classified in the Togaviridae, were examined for characteristics resembling those of the Flaviviridae family. Like flaviviruses, BVDV possesses a single-stranded RNA genome (approx. 4.3 x 10(6) Mr) deficient in a 3' poly(A) tract. This RNA has a single open reading frame spanning the length of the genome in the viral RNA sense (positive polarity), implying an expression strategy involving the processing of a precursor polyprotein. With the exception of several short but significant stretches of identical amino acids within two non-structural proteins, no extended regions of nucleotide or amino acid sequence homology between BVDV and representatives of three serological subgroups of mosquito-borne flaviviruses were noted. However, comparison of the organization of protein-coding domains along the genomes and the hydropathic profiles of amino acid sequences revealed pronounced similarities. It is proposed that Pestivirus, of which BVDV is the prototype member, should no longer be grouped in the Togaviridae family, but rather be considered a genus of non-arthropod-borne viruses within the Flaviviridae.


pmid: 6250421
title: Bovine viral diarrhea infection in pregnant swine
abstract: Twenty pregnant gilts (5 groups of 4) were infected experimentally with 1 of 4 strains of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) administered intranasally-orally. Blood specimens were taken from the gilts on postinfection day (PID) 7 and cultured for virus. Serum specimens, obtained on PID 21 and at termination of the experiment, were tested for neutralizing antibodies. At 90 to 112 days of gestation, the gilts were euthanatized and their fetuses were examined for evidence of intrauterine infection. Evidence of infection was demonstrated in all of the gilts, either by isolation of BVDV at PID 7 or subsequently by detection of neutralizing antibody titers. Intrauterine infection was confirmed in one of 20 gilts by isolation of BVDV, detection of neutralizing antibodies, and demonstration of microscopic lesions in the fetuses. The microscopic lesions were characterized as nonsuppurative meningitis and choroiditis. Clinical signs of disease were not seen in the infected fetuses. Of 8 gilts exposed to strains of BVDV pathogenic for cattle, 1 gilt developed intrauterine infection, 2 gilts were found barren, and 3 gilts had significantly fewer fetuses than copora lutea.


pmid: 16460357
title: Prevalence of antibodies to pestiviruses in goats in Austria
abstract: Serological investigations were carried out to determine the prevalence of pestiviral infections in goats in Austria, and to investigate the possible relations to herd management practices. The prevalence of antibodies to pestiviruses was investigated in 549 goats in 80 flocks from four regions of Austria. The examination for antibodies was performed using an indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay detecting antibodies to the border disease virus (BDV) and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). The observed individual prevalence was 11.5% and the flock prevalence was 31.3%. Comparative neutralization studies on the 63 seropositive samples with BVDV-1, BVDV-2 and the BDV yielded in 32 samples higher titres (> or =4-fold) to BVDV-1 and in two samples to BDV. The remaining samples did not show distinct differences in antibody titres against the pestivirus strains tested because of the cross-reactions. There was a significant (P < 0.05) association between the prevalence of antibodies to pestiviruses and the presence of cattle on the farm. Significant (P < 0.05) geographical variations in individual prevalence were obtained, ranging from 3.5% in lower Austria to 20.2% in Vorarlberg.


pmid: 16728117
title: In vitro fertilization and in vitro culture of bovine embryos in the presence of noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: In vitro embryo production has been used extensively in research and is now offered as a commercial service, yet the hazards of introducing specific infectious agents into in vitro embryo production systems have not been completely defined. The introduction of noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a special concern. One objective of this study was to determine if noncytopathic BVDV-infected uterine tubal cells in IVF and IVC systems affected the rate of cleavage and development. An additional objective was to determine if either degenerated ova or embryos produced in the presence of the infected cells had virus associated with them after washing. Follicular oocytes (n = 645) collected from slaughterhouse ovaries were matured and fertilized in vitro, and presumptive zygotes were cultured for 7 d. Primary cultures of uterine tubal cells for use during IVF and IVC were divided into 2 groups. One-half of the cultures was infected with noncytopathic BVDV while the other half was not exposed to the virus. Approximately equal groups of mature oocytes were inseminated, and the presumptive zygotes were cultured with infected or noninfected uterine tubal cells. After 7 d in IVC, zona pellucida-intact (ZP-I) morulae and blastocysts and degenerated ova were washed and assayed for the presence of infectious virus. Infections of uterine tubal cells were not apparent and did not reduce rates of cleavage and development (P > 0.05; Chi-square test for heterogeneity). After washing, BVDV was isolated at a significantly higher rate from groups of virus-exposed degenerated ova (79%) than from individual virus-exposed morulae and blastocysts (37%; P = 0.0002; Mantel-Haenszel summary, Chi-square).


pmid: 28619148
title: Antigenic diversity of Brazilian isolates of HoBi-like pestiviruses
abstract: Hobi-like viruses comprise an unclassified group of bovine pestiviruses related to bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1) and 2 (BVDV-2). These viruses were originally identified in fetal bovine serum from Brazilian origin and, subsequently, isolated from diseased animals in several countries. Herein we performed an antigenic characterization of eight Brazilian HoBi-like viruses isolated from persistently infected (PI) animals and from gastroenteric disease (2007-2015). Phylogenetic analysis based on the 5' unstranslated region (UTR) clustered these viruses with other HoBi-like viruses from European and Asiatic origin. Monoclonal antibody (MAb) binding indicated variability in the Hobi-like virus glycoprotein E2 and significant differences from the homologous BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 glycoprotein. Analysis of antigenic relatedness based on virus-neutralizing titers using virus-specific antisera revealed that HoBi-like viruses are antigenically very different from BVDV-1 and, to a lesser extent, from BVDV-2. Cross-neutralizing assays between pairs of HoBi-like viruses and their respective antisera indicated the existence of antigenic variability among these viruses, even for viruses isolated from the same herd in different occasions. Moreover, the identification of a HoBi-like isolate with low antigenic similarity with the other isolates indicates the potential existence of antigenic subgroups among HoBi-like virus isolates. Finally, sera of lambs immunized with commercial BVDV vaccines showed low or undetectable neutralizing activity against HoBi-like isolates. These results indicate significant antigenic differences between BVDV genotypes and Brazilian HoBi-like viruses and the existence of antigenic variability within this atypical group of pestiviruses. These findings extend the knowledge about the antigenic diversity of HoBi-like viruses and reinforce the need for their inclusion in current BVDV vaccines.


pmid: 16766076
title: Identification of bovine viral diarrhea virus type 2 in Korean native goat (Capra hircus)
abstract: In the genus Pestivirus, four genetically distinct viral species are currently recognized: bovine viral diarrhea viruses type 1 and 2 (BVDV-1, BVDV-2), classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and border disease virus (BDV). BVDV-1 and BDV infections have been described in goat species. Since 1998, border disease (BD) like symptoms in goats have been reported repeatedly in two southern-most provinces of Korea, which until then had been regarded as being free from BD. As a result of retrospective investigations of BD-like syndrome in goat reported between 1998 and 2004, a pestivirus was identified from intestinal content of an affected kid submitted in 1999. Both sequences of 5'-non-coding region and complete N(pro) gene from the isolate were analyzed to identify the genotype. Interestingly, the results revealed that the isolate belonged to BVDV-2 that is rarely reported even in cattle. The isolate showed close relationship to North American and European strains rather than the geographically closer Japanese strains. To authors' knowledge, this is the first identification of BVDV-2 in goat species.


pmid: 12968752
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus isolated from fetal calf serum enhances pathogenicity of attenuated transmissible gastroenteritis virus in neonatal pigs
abstract: A bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV-C) was isolated from swine tissue culture cells used to attenuate the transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV) after 68 passes. Piglets given a pure culture of BVDV-C developed clinical signs similar to those of a mild TGEV infection and recovered by 10 days postexposure. Villous blunting and fusion was observed in the small intestine, and a lymphocyte depletion was observed in Peyer's patches in the ileum. Piglets given a combination of BVDV-C and attenuated TGEV developed clinical signs similar to those of a virulent TGEV infection and were euthanized. The combined infection induced a generalized lymphocyte depletion throughout the lymphatic system and villous atrophy in the intestinal tract. Piglets exposed to a another type I strain of BVDV (NY-1) either alone or in combination with the attenuated TGEV had mild clinical signs similar to those of a TGEV infection. Moderate villous atrophy in the ileum and a lymphocyte depletion in the mesenteric lymph node were observed in these piglets postmortem. The data indicate a potential problem for diagnostic laboratories in relation to a diagnosis of virulent TGEV infections and in the field for young piglets exposed to a BVDV-contaminated TGEV vaccine.


pmid: 12770541
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea eradication and control programmes in Europe
abstract: The economic impact of BVDV infections has led a number of countries in Europe to start eradication or control programmes. While in both cases the primary step is identification and elimination of persistently infected (PI) animals, the strategy applied thereafter is dependent on the density and seroprevalence of the regional cattle population. One of the first countries to design and implement an eradication programme was Sweden in 1993, a country with a relatively low cattle density and no vaccination. For screening, an indirect antibody ELISA for serum, milk and bulk milk samples is being used. The basics of the Swedish model are no vaccination, voluntary participation, and financing of the entire scheme by the subscribing farmers. BVDV-free herds are certified and permanently checked. While in 1993 only about 35% of the herds were seronegative, about 87% were BVDV-free in 2001. The aim of control programmes in high density areas with high seroprevalence is to minimize economic losses by reducing the incidence of PI animals and thereby virus circulation (German model). Participation is voluntary, and parts of the costs are carried by the public animal insurance (Tierseuchenkasse). Screening is performed using an antigen capture ELISA with blood or serum. In Lower Saxony, for example, a herd is declared BVDV unsuspicious if all animals up to 36 months are BVDV antigen negative and the female offspring older than six months is vaccinated twice (an inactivated vaccine is used for basic immunization, and an attenuated live virus vaccine for boosting).


pmid: 10423135
title: Differential cytokine responses of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in response to bovine viral diarrhoea virus in cattle
abstract: Virus-specific T cell responses were measured in cattle seropositive for bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and compared with those from BVDV-seronegative animals. CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were purified and co-cultured in vitro with autologous, BVDV-infected monocytes over a time-course to assess the kinetics of the proliferative response. Supernatants from parallel T cell cultures were harvested and the presence of the cytokines interleukin (IL)-2, IL-4 and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) were measured by ELISA (IFN-gamma) or by a bioassay (IL-2 and IL-4). CD4+ and CD8+ T cells from all seropositive, but not seronegative, cattle proliferated specifically in response to BVDV-infected monocytes. Measurement of cytokines in the supernatants from proliferating T cell cultures showed that the CD4+ T cell response was type 2-like, with extremely high levels of B cell growth factor and IL-4 activity together with comparatively low levels of IL-2 activity and IFN-gamma protein. The CD8+ T cell response, although more variable, appeared to be type 1-like, with increased IL-2 and IFN-gamma but no IL-4 or B cell stimulatory activity.


pmid: 10028170
title: Detection and genotyping of bovine diarrhea virus by reverse transcription-polymerase chain amplification of the 5' untranslated region
abstract: A reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was developed to differentiate the bovine diarrhea virus (BVDV) from other pestiviruses, and to determine the genotype of the BVDV isolates. For this purpose, primer pairs were selected in the 5' untranslated region (5'UTR). The primers BE and B2 were located in highly conserved regions and were pestivirus-specific. Two primer pairs named B3B4 and B5B6 were specific of BVDV genotypes I and II, respectively. With this technique, an amplification product of the expected size was obtained with either the B3B4 or the B5B6 primer pairs for the 107 BVDV isolates tested but not for BDV or CSFV. For some isolates that were grouped in the genotype II, sequence analysis of the PCR fragments confirmed their classification into this genotype.


pmid: 8212494
title: Associations between viral infections and respiratory disease in artificially reared calves
abstract: Market-purchased, week-old, dairy bred calves entering a commercial calf-rearing unit were blood sampled at six-week intervals until three months old. Viral infections were monitored by ELISA for antibodies to bovine herpesvirus 1, bovine respiratory syncytial virus, parainfluenzavirus-3, bovine adenovirus subgroup 1 and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). The immunoperoxidase test was used to detect BVDV in serum. The total immunoglobulin concentration in the initial blood sample was measured by the zinc sulphate turbidity test. The relationship between clinical respiratory disease, viral seroconversion and the initial concentration of serum immunoglobulin was investigated by the use of the relative risk statistic, Fisher's exact test, chi 2 techniques and the correlation coefficient. Treatment rates for respiratory disease of 45 per cent were observed during the first period of the study and 19 per cent during the second period. During the first period there was a significant positive association between clinical respiratory disease and seroconversion for all the viruses except parainfluenzavirus-3 and BVDV but in the second period there was no such relationship. Similarly, in the first period, but not in the second, there was a significant negative association between clinical respiratory disease and both antiviral immunoglobulin as measured by ELISA and total immunoglobulin as measured by the zinc sulphate turbidity test. Two of the 536 calves that survived to three months of age were found to be persistently infected with BVDV.


pmid: 16766076
title: Identification of bovine viral diarrhea virus type 2 in Korean native goat (Capra hircus)
abstract: In the genus Pestivirus, four genetically distinct viral species are currently recognized: bovine viral diarrhea viruses type 1 and 2 (BVDV-1, BVDV-2), classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and border disease virus (BDV). BVDV-1 and BDV infections have been described in goat species. Since 1998, border disease (BD) like symptoms in goats have been reported repeatedly in two southern-most provinces of Korea, which until then had been regarded as being free from BD. As a result of retrospective investigations of BD-like syndrome in goat reported between 1998 and 2004, a pestivirus was identified from intestinal content of an affected kid submitted in 1999. Both sequences of 5'-non-coding region and complete N(pro) gene from the isolate were analyzed to identify the genotype. Interestingly, the results revealed that the isolate belonged to BVDV-2 that is rarely reported even in cattle. The isolate showed close relationship to North American and European strains rather than the geographically closer Japanese strains. To authors' knowledge, this is the first identification of BVDV-2 in goat species.


pmid: 16169612
title: Detection of BVDV persistently infected animals in Belgium: evaluation of the strategy implemented
abstract: Until now, no official bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV) control program has been implemented in Belgium. The only legislation dealing with the detection of BVDV-infected animals concerns the purchase of animals. A strategy of control, based on the identification and elimination of persistently infected (PI) animals and the vaccination of cows before insemination has been designed in both the Northern and the Southern part of the country. The strategy of detection of PI animals relies on PCR testing of pools of blood. Individual blood samples corresponding to the positive pools are then tested by BVDV-antigen ELISA. A first evaluation of the measures already applied in Belgium is presented. Data obtained in 2003 are presented and discussed regarding the validation of the laboratory strategy, the prevalence of positive herds, the genotype of circulating viruses, the outcome of antigen positive animals and the need for improvement of the current legislation.


pmid: 12968752
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus isolated from fetal calf serum enhances pathogenicity of attenuated transmissible gastroenteritis virus in neonatal pigs
abstract: A bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV-C) was isolated from swine tissue culture cells used to attenuate the transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV) after 68 passes. Piglets given a pure culture of BVDV-C developed clinical signs similar to those of a mild TGEV infection and recovered by 10 days postexposure. Villous blunting and fusion was observed in the small intestine, and a lymphocyte depletion was observed in Peyer's patches in the ileum. Piglets given a combination of BVDV-C and attenuated TGEV developed clinical signs similar to those of a virulent TGEV infection and were euthanized. The combined infection induced a generalized lymphocyte depletion throughout the lymphatic system and villous atrophy in the intestinal tract. Piglets exposed to a another type I strain of BVDV (NY-1) either alone or in combination with the attenuated TGEV had mild clinical signs similar to those of a TGEV infection. Moderate villous atrophy in the ileum and a lymphocyte depletion in the mesenteric lymph node were observed in these piglets postmortem. The data indicate a potential problem for diagnostic laboratories in relation to a diagnosis of virulent TGEV infections and in the field for young piglets exposed to a BVDV-contaminated TGEV vaccine.


pmid: 12770541
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea eradication and control programmes in Europe
abstract: The economic impact of BVDV infections has led a number of countries in Europe to start eradication or control programmes. While in both cases the primary step is identification and elimination of persistently infected (PI) animals, the strategy applied thereafter is dependent on the density and seroprevalence of the regional cattle population. One of the first countries to design and implement an eradication programme was Sweden in 1993, a country with a relatively low cattle density and no vaccination. For screening, an indirect antibody ELISA for serum, milk and bulk milk samples is being used. The basics of the Swedish model are no vaccination, voluntary participation, and financing of the entire scheme by the subscribing farmers. BVDV-free herds are certified and permanently checked. While in 1993 only about 35% of the herds were seronegative, about 87% were BVDV-free in 2001. The aim of control programmes in high density areas with high seroprevalence is to minimize economic losses by reducing the incidence of PI animals and thereby virus circulation (German model). Participation is voluntary, and parts of the costs are carried by the public animal insurance (Tierseuchenkasse). Screening is performed using an antigen capture ELISA with blood or serum. In Lower Saxony, for example, a herd is declared BVDV unsuspicious if all animals up to 36 months are BVDV antigen negative and the female offspring older than six months is vaccinated twice (an inactivated vaccine is used for basic immunization, and an attenuated live virus vaccine for boosting).


pmid: 10423135
title: Differential cytokine responses of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in response to bovine viral diarrhoea virus in cattle
abstract: Virus-specific T cell responses were measured in cattle seropositive for bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and compared with those from BVDV-seronegative animals. CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were purified and co-cultured in vitro with autologous, BVDV-infected monocytes over a time-course to assess the kinetics of the proliferative response. Supernatants from parallel T cell cultures were harvested and the presence of the cytokines interleukin (IL)-2, IL-4 and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) were measured by ELISA (IFN-gamma) or by a bioassay (IL-2 and IL-4). CD4+ and CD8+ T cells from all seropositive, but not seronegative, cattle proliferated specifically in response to BVDV-infected monocytes. Measurement of cytokines in the supernatants from proliferating T cell cultures showed that the CD4+ T cell response was type 2-like, with extremely high levels of B cell growth factor and IL-4 activity together with comparatively low levels of IL-2 activity and IFN-gamma protein. The CD8+ T cell response, although more variable, appeared to be type 1-like, with increased IL-2 and IFN-gamma but no IL-4 or B cell stimulatory activity.


pmid: 10028170
title: Detection and genotyping of bovine diarrhea virus by reverse transcription-polymerase chain amplification of the 5' untranslated region
abstract: A reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was developed to differentiate the bovine diarrhea virus (BVDV) from other pestiviruses, and to determine the genotype of the BVDV isolates. For this purpose, primer pairs were selected in the 5' untranslated region (5'UTR). The primers BE and B2 were located in highly conserved regions and were pestivirus-specific. Two primer pairs named B3B4 and B5B6 were specific of BVDV genotypes I and II, respectively. With this technique, an amplification product of the expected size was obtained with either the B3B4 or the B5B6 primer pairs for the 107 BVDV isolates tested but not for BDV or CSFV. For some isolates that were grouped in the genotype II, sequence analysis of the PCR fragments confirmed their classification into this genotype.


pmid: 8212494
title: Associations between viral infections and respiratory disease in artificially reared calves
abstract: Market-purchased, week-old, dairy bred calves entering a commercial calf-rearing unit were blood sampled at six-week intervals until three months old. Viral infections were monitored by ELISA for antibodies to bovine herpesvirus 1, bovine respiratory syncytial virus, parainfluenzavirus-3, bovine adenovirus subgroup 1 and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). The immunoperoxidase test was used to detect BVDV in serum. The total immunoglobulin concentration in the initial blood sample was measured by the zinc sulphate turbidity test. The relationship between clinical respiratory disease, viral seroconversion and the initial concentration of serum immunoglobulin was investigated by the use of the relative risk statistic, Fisher's exact test, chi 2 techniques and the correlation coefficient. Treatment rates for respiratory disease of 45 per cent were observed during the first period of the study and 19 per cent during the second period. During the first period there was a significant positive association between clinical respiratory disease and seroconversion for all the viruses except parainfluenzavirus-3 and BVDV but in the second period there was no such relationship. Similarly, in the first period, but not in the second, there was a significant negative association between clinical respiratory disease and both antiviral immunoglobulin as measured by ELISA and total immunoglobulin as measured by the zinc sulphate turbidity test. Two of the 536 calves that survived to three months of age were found to be persistently infected with BVDV.


pmid: 2173447
title: Comparative pathogenicity of selected bovine viral diarrhea virus isolates in gnotobiotic lambs
abstract: The infectivity and pathogenicity of selected bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolates were determined in gnotobiotic, colostrum-deprived neonatal lambs. Five-day-old cesarean-derived gnotobiotic lambs were exposed to 1 of 10 BVDV isolates via aerosol suspension. These isolates were from tissues or secretions of calves or lambs affected with respiratory tract disease, weak neonatal calves, aborted bovine fetuses, or reference Singer or Draper BVDV. The pathogenicity of each isolate, relative to the others, was evaluated in lambs by measurement of the neutralizing antibody response, virus isolation from nasal secretions or tissues, and postmortem lesions. The BVDV isolates varied in their infectivity and pathogenicity. Singer, the cytopathic reference strain, was the most lymphotrophic isolate and stimulated the greatest neutralizing antibody response. Encephalitis was the most consistent lesion observed and was used as the final determinant of relative pathogenicity of the viruses. The most neuropathogenic isolates were the 2 viruses originating from lambs affected with respiratory tract disease, the 2 weak neonatal calf isolates, and 1 isolate from an aborted bovine fetus. The least pathogenic isolates were the 2 reference isolates, Draper and Singer; the 2 mucosal disease isolates; and 1 isolate originating from an aborted bovine fetus.


pmid: 35155658
title: Development of a One-Step Multiplex Real-Time PCR Assay for the Detection of Viral Pathogens Associated With the Bovine Respiratory Disease Complex
abstract: Bovine respiratory disease complex (BRDC) occurs widely in cattle farms. The main viral pathogens include bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), Bovine herpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1), bovine parainfluenza virus type 3 (BPIV3), and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), and the newly emerged influenza D virus (IDV). In this study, we have developed a one-step multiplex real-time Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) capable of simultaneously detecting these five viral pathogens causing BRDC. The established assay could specifically detect targeted viruses without cross-reaction with others. The detection limit was ~10 copies/reaction for single real-time PCR and 100 copies/ reaction for multiplex real-time PCR assay. A total of 213 nasal samples from cattle with signs of respiratory tract disease were then collected for performance evaluation of the established platform, proving that the method has good specificity and sensitivity. The surveillance data suggested that BVDV and BoHV-1 infections are the dominant cause of BRDC in the herd, whereas the detection rate of IDV, BIPV3, and BRSV is relatively lower. In summary, the established assay provides technical support for rapid clinical detection of BRDC associated viral pathogens to guide the formulation of BRDC prevention and control measures.


pmid: 23034138
title: Reproductive disorders in relation to Neospora caninum, Brucella spp. and bovine viral diarrhoea virus serostatus in breeding and dairy farms of central and southern Ethiopia
abstract: Abortion and stillbirth are important reproductive disorders in the dairy industry and are often caused by infectious agents. This study investigated whether bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), Brucella spp., and Neospora caninum are associated with abortion and/or stillbirth in dairy cattle in Ethiopia. Dairy cattle from 99 farms were categorized as cases (n=134) or controls (n=268) according to reproductive data. Blood samples were screened for antibodies for these infectious agents. The overall proportion of cattle that were seropositive for BVDV, Brucella spp., and N. caninum was 11∙7%, 3∙2%, and 17∙2%, respectively. Seropositivity for BVDV and Brucella spp. was similar for cases and controls, but significantly more cases were seropositive for N. caninum (29∙8%) than controls (10∙8%). This is the first report demonstrating N. caninum is common in dairy cattle in Ethiopia, and is probably a greater impediment to reproductive success in Ethiopian dairy farms than either BVDV or Brucella spp.


pmid: 10499449
title: An internal duplication in the 5' noncoding region of strain H: a bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) isolated from pigs
abstract: A pig pestivirus isolate, strain H, was characterized by using reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) and direct sequencing of the amplicons. A duplication of 74 nucleotides was found at the 5' terminus of the 5' noncoding (NC) region, which was also found in RNA isolates from tonsils from two other pigs from the same farm. When the duplication was omitted, the 5' NC region showed 97.8% similarity to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) strain Korevaar and 94% to BVDV strain Osloss. Furthermore, the rearrangement of the 5' NC region of strain H was maintained after passaging in different cell lines and is not common for ruminant-like pestivirus isolated from pigs. Phylogenetic analysis based on the deduced amino acid sequence of the E2 gene of strain H confirmed the findings of the 5' NC region and show that this strain belongs to the BVDVIb subgroup. These results show for the first time rearrangements in the 5' NC region of a pestivirus.


pmid: 31650465
title: Diseases associated with bovine viral diarrhea virus subtypes 1a and 2b in beef and dairy cattle in Uruguay
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV, Pestivirus) causes significant economic losses to the livestock industry worldwide. Although serological surveys show that BVDV exposure is widespread in cattle in Uruguay, BVDV-associated diseases are greatly underreported. The aim of this work is to describe the epidemiological, clinical, pathological, and virological findings from spontaneous outbreaks of BVDV-associated diseases in cattle in Uruguay. Diagnostic investigations were performed during 6 spontaneous disease outbreaks on beef and dairy cattle farms in the departments of Colonia, Rio Negro, and Soriano between November 2016 and April 2018. Carcasses of 8 naturally deceased cattle from these outbreaks were necropsied and subjected to histological examination and immunohistochemistry to detect BVDV antigen in the tissues. Reverse transcription real-time PCR and genomic sequencing were also performed to identify BVDV at the species and subtype levels. Other ancillary diagnostic tests, including bacterial cultures, were performed on a case-by-case basis to rule in/out differential diagnoses based on initial clinicopathological presumptive diagnoses. BVDV-associated conditions that were diagnosed in the 8 cases included mucosal disease, transient postnatal BVDV infections associated with digestive/septicemic salmonellosis by Salmonella serovar typhimurium, Histophilus somni bronchopneumonia, urinary tract coinfections with Escherichia coli and Streptococcus sp., enteric coinfection with coccidia, and transplacental fetal infections and abortions with Neospora caninum coinfection. BVDV-1a and BVDV-2b were each identified in four of the eight cases. We conclude that BVDV-1a and BVDV-2b contribute significantly to disease and mortality in cattle in Uruguay. Future research should estimate the economic impact of BVDV in the Uruguayan livestock sector.


pmid: 8310903
title: Immune response to other agents of calves persistently infected with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV)
abstract: The ability of calves persistently infected (PI) with bovine virus diarrhoea virus BVDV to respond immunologically to defined antigens other than BVDV was studied. Five clinically healthy PI calves were studied together with 5 non-PI calves serving as controls. The humoral immune response was tested by measuring the serum antitoxin titre following immunization against tetanus. The cellular immune response was tested by the ability to develop a positive reaction in a cutaneous tuberculin test performed 1 month after immunization against Johne's disease (paratuberculosis). Finally, a skin-sensitizing agent, dinitrochlorobenzene (DNCB), was employed to study whether PI calves would react by hypersensitization following skin exposure to DNCB for 7 consecutive days followed by application of DNCB to a new skin area remote from the area that had first been exposed. The response of PI calves to the various types of antigenic stimuli applied was not significantly different from that of the control calves. Thus, PI calves developed a potent antitoxin response after tetanus immunization, they showed a positive reaction to tuberculin skin test after immunization against paratuberculosis, and were skin sensitized with DNCB.


pmid: 1667787
title: A monoclonal ELISA for bovine viral diarrhoea pestivirus antigen detection in persistently infected cattle
abstract: Detection of cattle persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is crucial to controlling mucosal disease. A sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using monoclonal antibodies raised against the 48-kDa glycoprotein and the 120/80-kDa protein was developed for detecting antigens in leucocytes of 3 persistently BVDV-infected calves. The test is simple, sensitive and rapid. Moreover the same ELISA was able to recognise Belgian field isolates of BVDV. These results show that the test can be applied in the field.


pmid: 16542517
title: Absence of pestivirus antigen in brains with white matter damage
abstract: We previously suggested that antenatal pestivirus infection might play a role in the pathogenesis of perinatal brain white matter damage (WMD) in preterm infants. We have now examined 22 brains from stillborns and deceased newborns (both preterm and term) for the presence of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) antigen. The brains of five females and five males with WMD (median gestational age 36.5wks), and nine female and three male controls (median gestational age 36.5wks) were used in the study. No BVDV antigen was detected in any of the 22 brains. We conclude that brain infection with BVDV is unlikely to play a role in WMD pathogenesis among preterm or term newborns. Further research is needed to test the hypothesis that intrauterine exposure to pestivirus antigen elicits a fetal inflammatory response which then contributes to WMD.


pmid: 24461321
title: Differential expression of pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines during experimental infection with low or high virulence bovine viral diarrhea virus in beef calves
abstract: The objective was to compare the mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory (TNF-α, IL-1β, IFN-γ, IL-2, IL-12, IL-15) and anti-inflammatory (IL-4, IL-10, TGF-β) cytokines, after experimental infection with low or high virulence noncytopathic (ncp) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Thirty BVDV-naïve, beef calves were intranasally inoculated with low (LV; n=10, SD-1) or high (HV; n=10, 1373) virulence ncp BVDV or with BVDV-free cell culture medium (Control, n=10). Calves were euthanized on day 5 post-inoculation, and tracheo-bronchial lymph node and spleen samples were collected for mRNA expression through quantitative-RT-PCR. mRNA levels of pro-inflammatory (TNF-α, IL-1β, IL-2, IFN-γ) and anti-inflammatory (IL-4 and IL-10) cytokines were up-regulated in tracheo-bronchial lymph nodes of HV, but not in LV, compared to the control group (P<0.05). IL-12 mRNA level was up-regulated in tracheo-bronchial lymph nodes of both LV and HV groups (P ≤ 0.05). A significant up-regulation of IL-15 mRNA was observed in tracheo-bronchial lymph nodes for LV calves (P<0.002), but not for HV calves. Experimental inoculation with BVDV-2 1373 stimulated significant mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines. In contrast, inoculation with BVDV-1a SD-1 only resulted in up-regulation of IL-12 and IL-15 mRNA, which is associated with activation of macrophages and NK cells during innate immune response.


pmid: 15793110
title: Development of a cell-based high-throughput specificity screen using a hepatitis C virus-bovine viral diarrhea virus dual replicon assay
abstract: The hepatitis C virus (HCV) replicon is a unique system for the development of a high-throughput screen (HTS), since the analysis of inhibitors requires the quantification of a decrease in a steady-state level of HCV RNA. HCV replicon replication is dependent on host cell factors, and any toxic effects may have a significant impact on HCV replicon replication. Therefore, determining the antiviral specificity of compounds presents a challenge for the identification of specific HCV inhibitors. Here we report the development of an HCV/bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) dual replicon assay suitable for HTS to address these issues. The HCV reporter enzyme is the endogenous NS3 protease contained within the HCV genome, while the BVDV reporter enzyme is a luciferase enzyme engineered into the BVDV genome. The HTS uses a mixture of HCV and BVDV replicon cell lines placed in the same well of a 96-well plate and isolated in the same cell backgrounds (Huh-7). The format consists of three separate but compatible assays: the first quantitates the amount of cytotoxicity based upon the conversion of Alamar blue dye via cellular enzymes, while the second indirectly quantitates HCV replicon replication through measurement of the amount of NS3 protease activity present. The final assay measures the amount of luciferase activity present from the BVDV replicon cells, as an indicator of the specificity of the test compounds. This HCV/BVDV dual replicon assay provides a reliable format to determine the potency and specificity of HCV replicon inhibitors.


pmid: 2175318
title: Experimental pestivirus infections in newborn goat kids
abstract: Two experiments were carried out in which 37 healthy newborn goat kids were inoculated with a non-cytopathic ovine (BDV) or a cytopathic bovine pestivirus (BVDV) by intramuscular or intracerebral injection. No kids showed signs of disease or gross lesions which could be attributed to these viruses, but inoculated kids had lower mean growth rates than the controls. Significant histological changes in the CNS of 14 kids were restricted largely to the white matter and consisted mainly of hypercellular foci comprising microglial/histiocytic cells and mild perivascular infiltration by mononuclear cells. Varying degrees of infiltration of the myocardium by lymphocytes and plasma cells were observed. All kids remained negative for neutralizing antibodies against pestivirus until 2 to 3 weeks after infection. Titres increased during the following weeks. Pestiviruses were recovered from kids necropsied 10 days after inoculation, but not from any kids killed 20 days after inoculation or later. Non-cytopathic virus was isolated from various tissues of four kids that had received BDV and three kids that had been given BVDV. Cytopathic viruses were not recovered from any kids. Mean white blood cell counts in all kids were within the normal range at 4 and 8 weeks after inoculation. The lymphocyte response to stimulation by phytohaemagglutinin was significantly increased on both sampling occasions in the BDV-inoculated kids, while in the BVDV-inoculated animals, a similar increase was seen only at 8 weeks.


pmid: 2536511
title: Viral antigen distribution in the central nervous system of cattle persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Distribution of viral antigens in the central nervous system of 25 cattle with a persistent bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection was studied. Using a polyclonal antiserum produced in pigs and the direct immunofluorescence and immunoperoxidase technique, BVDV antigen was located exclusively in neurons. Predilection sites for viral persistence were cerebral cortex and hippocampus; in other areas of brain and spinal cord, viral antigens were in single neurons or small groups of neurons. There was no morphological evidence of cellular alteration due to viral persistence. Perivascular lymphocytic infiltrations were in affected nervous tissue. It is concluded that the central nervous system is an important location for persistence of BVDV.


pmid: 18424020
title: Co-existence of genetically and antigenically diverse bovine viral diarrhoea viruses in an endemic situation
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is an important cattle pathogen that causes acute or persistent infections. These are associated with immunotolerance to the viral strain persisting in animals that became infected early in their intrauterine development. To this date, the epidemiology of BVD in Switzerland runs virtually undisturbed by control measures such as restrictions on animal traffic or vaccination. Here, we analysed the viral genetics of 169 Swiss isolates and carried out crossed serum neutralisation tests to assess the antigenic spectrum of BVDV strains present in the cattle population. Besides confirming the presence of BVDV type 1 subgroups b, e, h and k, a single "orphan" BVDV-1 virus was detected that does not belong to any known BVDV-1 subgroup. No BVDV type 2 viruses were detected, suggesting that they are rare or not present in the cattle population. Antigenic comparison revealed significant differences between the different subgroups, with anti-1k immune serum having up to tenfold lower neutralising activity against 1b, 1e and 1h subgroup viruses, which however may still suffice to protect 1k-immune animals against superinfection by viruses of those other subgroups. Serum from routinely vaccinated animals revealed generally low titres but good cross-neutralisation. A geographic information system revealed that the viruses of the different subgroups are distributed in an apparently randomised fashion in the cattle population. This geographic distribution pattern may reflect peculiarities of the management practice in the Swiss cattle industry that, especially through annual transhumance of up to 25% of the entire population in the alpine region, tend to optimise the spread of BVDV.


pmid: 27509877
title: Seroprevalence and risk factors of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection in yaks (Bos grunniens) in northwest China
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), a member of the Pestivirus genus, is an important pathogen of cattle worldwide, causing reproductive disorders in adult cattle and mucosal disease in calves. However, limited information about BVDV infection in yaks (Bos grunniens) in China is available, especially in white yaks which is a unique yak breed that only lives in Tianzhu Tibetan Autonomous County (TTAC), Gansu Province, northwest China. Therefore, we conducted a cross-sectional study to estimate the seroprevalence and risk factors associated with BVDV infection in 1584 yaks in Gansu province, northwest China, between April 2013 and March 2014 using an indirect ELISA test. The overall seroprevalence of BVDV in yaks was 37.56 % (595/1584), with 45.08 % (275/610) in black yaks and 32.85 % (320/974) in white yaks. Moreover, positive yaks were found in all four regions, varied from 33.22 to 40.31 %. Male yaks had a similar seroprevalence (37.84 %) with that of the female yaks (37.11 %). Season, species and geographical origins of yaks were considered as risk factors analyzed by logistic regression model. To our knowledge, this is the first report of seroprevalence and risk factors associated with BVDV infection in white yaks in China.


pmid: 23932894
title: Contribution of Leptospira, Neospora caninum and bovine viral diarrhea virus to fetal loss of beef cattle in New Zealand
abstract: The profitability of beef breeding farms in New Zealand depends principally on optimal reproductive performance. The aim of this study was to estimate the impact of four major pathogens, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), Neospora caninum (N. caninum), Leptospira borgpetersenii serovar Hardjo (Hardjo), and Leptospira interrogans serovar Pomona (Pomona), on rates of fetal loss in commercial beef breeding herds. Farms reporting fetal loss were recruited, and a blood sample from aborting cows (cases) was collected. Controls were normally calving cows from the same farm. At least four controls were selected from each farm contributing cases. Samples were tested using ELISA for detection of antibodies against BVDV and N. caninum, and microscopic agglutination test (MAT) for detection of antibody against Hardjo and Pomona. A selection of titer cut-offs was conducted to evaluate the relationship between fetal loss and seropositivity to each pathogen using conditional logistic regression. The cut-off titer with the strongest association with fetal loss was included in the multivariate model. A significant increased risk of fetal loss was found for animals seropositive to N. caninum (odds ratio (OR)=3.36; 95% confidence interval (95% CI)=1.27-8.89), Hardjo (OR=1.84; 95% CI=1.01-3.33), and Pomona in non-vaccinated cows (OR=14.91, 95% CI=1.73-128.84) at the ELISA titer ≥ 30, and MAT titers of ≥ 1:384 and ≥ 1:768 for a positive sample, respectively. A marginally non-significant increased risk of fetal loss was found for animals exposed to BVDV (OR=2.01; 95% CI=0.99-4.11) at the ELISA titer of ≤ 1. Vaccination did not affect ORs for Hardjo or BVDV and no herd vaccinated against N. caninum. Approximately 14.0% of all fetal loss in the beef breeding cattle population in New Zealand may be attributable to BVDV (3.5%), N. caninum (3.0%), Hardjo (4.7%), and Pomona (3.6%).


pmid: 8592912
title: Variation in neuropathogenicity in sheep fetuses transplacentally infected with non-cytopathogenic and cytopathogenic biotypes of bovine-virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: Pregnant Merino ewes were inoculated intravenously between days 63 and 65 of gestation with a non-cytopathogenic (ncp) bovine-virus diarrhoea-virus (BVDV) isolate (experiment A). The histomorphological findings and the distribution of viral antigen, as revealed by immunohistochemistry in brains of fetuses from experiment A, were compared with those seen in fetal brains from a previous study (experiment B), in which pregnant ewes had been intravenously infected between days 65 and 68 of gestation with the cytopathogenic (cp) BVDV strain Indiana. The two viruses showed remarkable variations concerning their pathogenicity for the developing fetal brain. The cp BVDV had a much higher neuropathogenic potential than the ncp BVDV and induced severe intracranial malformations in most fetuses. In experiment A, exclusively relatively mild leucoencephalomalacic lesions occurred. Between fetuses of the two experiments, significant differences concerning the distribution of viral antigen and the inflammatory response were found. In the majority of fetal brains from experiment B examined at days 10, 14 and 21 post inoculation (p.i.), antigen-containing differentiated brain cells (neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes) and undifferentiated cells in the periventricular germinal zones were seen throughout the different zones of the developing telencephalon and cerebellum. At 21 days p.i., a marked inflammatory response consisting of brain macrophages and other mononuclear cells occurred in the meninges and in the brain parenchyma of fetuses from experiment B. In brain sections of fetuses infected with ncp BVDV, in contrast to fetuses infected with cp BVDV, viral antigen was not detectable during the early stages (days 10 and 20) p.i., and histopathological lesions were not seen at this stage. At days 41 and 47 p.i., antigen-positive astrocytes and oligodendrocytes were found in the developing white matter of the telencephalon and cerebellum. Furthermore, antigen-containing neurons were seen in the developing cerebral cortex. Cellular infiltrations in fetal brains from experiment A were limited to the leucoencephalomalacic areas in the developing cerebral and cerebellar white matter and consisted exclusively of brain macrophages. Immunohistochemical staining in brain sections of fetuses from both experiments revealed that numerous perivascular cells contained viral antigen, whilst positive endothelial cells were exclusively found in fetuses from experiment A. From the findings of this study it was concluded that the cp BVDV stain used in experiment B has a marked tropism for the fetal brain and both its already differentiated and undifferentiated cell populations, and that the resulting brain lesions primarily are the consequence of a direct cytolysis of these cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)


pmid: 24530541
title: Induction of interferon-gamma and downstream pathways during establishment of fetal persistent infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Development of transplacental infection depends on the ability of the virus to cross the placenta and replicate within the fetus while counteracting maternal and fetal immune responses. Unfortunately, little is known about this complex process. Non-cytopathic (ncp) strains of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a pestivirus in the Flaviviridae family, cause persistent infection in early gestational fetuses (<150 days; persistently infected, PI), but are cleared by immunocompetent animals and late gestational fetuses (>150 days; transiently infected, TI). Evasion of innate immune response and development of immunotolerance to ncp BVDV have been suggested as possible mechanisms for the establishment of the persistent infection. Previously we have observed a robust temporal induction of interferon (IFN) type I (innate immune response) and upregulation of IFN stimulated genes (ISGs) in BVDV TI fetuses. Modest chronic upregulation of ISGs in PI fetuses and calves reflects a stimulated innate immune response during persistent BVDV infection. We hypothesized that establishing persistent fetal BVDV infection is also accompanied by the induction of IFN-gamma (IFN-γ). The aims of the present study were to determine IFN-γ concentration in blood and amniotic fluid from control, TI and PI fetuses during BVDV infection and analyze induction of the IFN-γ downstream pathways in fetal lymphoid tissues. Two experiments with in vivo BVDV infections were completed. In Experiment 1, pregnant heifers were infected with ncp BVDV type 2 on day 75 or 175 of gestation or kept naïve to generate PI, TI and control fetuses, respectively. Fetuses were collected by Cesarean section on day 190. In Experiment 2, fetuses were collected on days 82, 89, 97, 192 and 245 following infection of pregnant heifers on day 75 of gestation. The results were consistent with the hypothesis that ncp BVDV infection induces IFN-γ secretion during acute infection in both TI and PI fetuses and that lymphoid tissues such as spleen, liver and thymus, serve both as possible sources of IFN-γ and target organs for its effects. Notably, induction of IFN-γ coincides with a decrease in BVDV RNA concentrations in PI fetal blood and tissues. This is the first report indicating the possible presence of an adaptive immune response in persistent BVDV infections, which may be contributing to the observed reduction of viremia in PI fetuses.


pmid: 19144395
title: Safety and efficacy of vaccination of seronegative bulls with modified-live, cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea viruses
abstract: The objectives were to vaccinate peri-pubertal bulls with a modified-live vaccine consisting of cytopathic BVDV strains Singer and 296 and evaluate the resulting: (a) transient shed of modified-live, cytopathic BVDV in semen; (b) risk of prolonged testicular infection; and (c) protection against subsequent testicular infection due to viral challenge. Seronegative, peri-pubertal bulls were vaccinated subcutaneously with a standard dose of vaccine (n=11) or were maintained as unvaccinated controls (n=11). Forty-nine days after vaccination, all bulls were intranasally inoculated with a noncytopathic field strain of BVDV. Semen and testicular biopsies collected after vaccination and challenge were assayed for BVDV using virus isolation, reverse transcription-nested PCR, or immunohistochemistry, and the identity of viral strains was determined by nucleotide sequencing of PCR products. Vaccination of peri-pubertal bulls with this vaccine caused a short-term, transient shed of only the type 1a strain of modified-live, cytopathic BVDV in semen for up to 10d after vaccination. The vaccine did not cause prolonged testicular infection. Vaccination with this product prevented development of prolonged testicular infections after subsequent exposure to a field strain of BVDV.


pmid: 18824056
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus is a suitable viral vector for stable expression of heterologous gene when inserted in between N(pro) and C genes
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a group of small enveloped viruses with a single-stranded, positive-oriented RNA genome of approximately 12.3 kb. BVDV genome directs the production of a viral polyprotein that is subsequently cleaved to release the mature viral proteins. To explore the potential of using BVDV as viral vector for stable expression of heterologous genes, eGFP2A was inserted in between N(pro) and C genes of a noncytopathic type-I BVDV strain SD1. eGFP2A was designed with eGFP protein in frame fused to the N terminus of the foot-and-mouth disease virus 2A protease. This strategy promised not only the correct processing of both viral N(pro) and C protein but also releasing of the chimeric protein from the nascent viral polyprotein. The recombinant reporter virus was successfully rescued in MDBK cells. In vitro study showed that eGFP2A protein, as expected, was expressed and processed properly from the nascent viral polyprotein. The reporter virus was similar to wt SD1 in viral RNA replication and protein expression and comparable to wt SD1 in growth kinetics except that this virus had a peak virus titer approximately 0.5 log(10) lower and a maximum yield about 4h later than wt SD1. In summary, these results indicated that BVDV is a suitable viral vector for stable expression of heterologous genes when inserted in between N(pro) and C genes.


pmid: 18487484
title: The fetal brain in bovine viral diarrhea virus-infected calves: lesions, distribution, and cellular heterogeneity of viral antigen at 190 days gestation
abstract: Previous studies have shown that the brain is a target of persistent infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and have demonstrated viral tropism for neurons as well as other endogenous cell types in diverse brain areas. Apart from foci of mild residual inflammation in some postnatal calves, consistent brain lesions, per se, have not been reported. No similar comprehensive studies of the brain have been reported in bovine fetuses. In the current study, 12 BVDV-seronegative heifers were inoculated intranasally with a 2-ml 4.4 log(10) TCID(50)/ml dose of noncytopathic type 2 BVDV at 75 and 175 days of gestation to create persistently and transiently infected fetuses, respectively. In only persistently infected fetuses, encephaloclastic lesions resulting in pseudocysts were observed in the subependymal zone in the region of the median eminence and adjacent corona radiata as well as in the region of the external capsule associated with lenticulostriate arteries. Additionally, areas of rarefaction in white matter were observed at the tips of cerebrocortical gyri and in the external capsule. The distribution of viral antigen was examined by immunohistochemical labeling using the 15C5 anti-BVDV monoclonal antibody. Viral antigen was detected only in calves inoculated at 75 days of gestation, i.e., persistently infected. The pattern of BVDV immunolabeling revealed both similarities and differences compared with previous studies in postnatal calves, suggesting that viral infection in the brain is a dynamic and progressive rather than static process.


pmid: 15721367
title: Hepatitis C virus and the related bovine viral diarrhea virus considerably differ in the functional organization of the 5' non-translated region: implications for the viral life cycle
abstract: The 5' non-translated regions (5'NTRs) of hepatitis C virus (HCV) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) initiate translation of the viral RNA genome through an internal ribosomal entry site (IRES) and operate as major determinants of the RNA replication cycle. We report on comparative studies with both virus systems demonstrating that the functional organization of the 5'NTRs of HCV and BVDV shows evident differences despite a similar RNA structure. In the BVDV 5'NTR, replication signals are restricted to the 5' terminal domain I. With HCV, we defined specific replication signals in domain I but also in domains II and III that constitute the functional IRES. While the BVDV domain I supports IRES activity, the HCV domain I appears to down-regulate IRES function. These data suggest that HCV and BVDV apply different mechanisms to coordinate viral protein and RNA synthesis, which may explain differences in the replication efficiency of both related viruses.


pmid: 12770547
title: Trends in the BVDV serological response in the Upper Midwest
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea continues to be an important disease affecting both beef and dairy animals of all ages. One of the quickest means of measuring bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) exposure and infection in the herd is a serum neutralization (SN) assay. Type 1 and type 2 BVDV SN results from the Animal Disease Research and Diagnostic Laboratory at South Dakota State University were collected over a seven-year period (1995-2001) to determine any trends. These results indicated that in 1996, 31% of the animals had titres > or =512 while in 2001, 74% of the titres were > or = 512. There has been a progressive increase over the seven-year period in the number of cases with titres > or = 512 with the exception of 1999 when there was a slight decrease. When analyzing the titres greater than 512, a further increase was seen. In 1995, 80% of the titres were < or = 1024 and 20% were 2048 and no titres were >2048. In 2001, 47% of the antibody levels were < or = 1024 while 53% were < or =2048 and 30% were >4096. The most dramatic increase in titres occurred in 1997 and the percentage of animals with titres from 512-8192 has remained fairly constant for the last five years (1997-2001). This increase is in part due to more extensive use of vaccination but probably also reflects a rise in field infections. In the future, standardizing existing BVDV SN serology along with developing new BVDV serology methods is necessary to provide continuity for any full-scale eradication programme.


pmid: 11153228
title: [Detection of the genome of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) using the polymerase chain reaction after reverse transcription (RT-PCR): comparison of methods for the isolation of ribonucleic acid (RNA) from clinical samples]
abstract: The RT-PCR is an in vitro technique that is increasingly being used for diagnosis of viral animal pathogens. Due to its high sensitivity it is considered as an alternative to current standard methods for detecting BVDV especially in pooled samples, e.g. from bulk tank milk. A prerequisite for the performance of RT-PCR is an efficient and simple method for sample preparation. The aim of this work was to compare the efficiency of three commercially available kits for RNA extraction, and their suitability for sample preparation for the detection of the BVDV genome by RT-PCR in blood, milk and tissue samples. The kits were based on different methods for extraction of RNA and differed in costs, labour and time consumption. The most sensitive RT-PCRs (exception: heparinised blood) were obtained when sample preparation was performed by acidic guanidinium-isothiocyanate-phenol-chloroform extraction with the Trizol (Gibco) reagent. Using a kit based on the binding of RNA to silica membrane in a spin column, positive results in RT-PCR were obtained from all samples, but with lower sensitivity. The advantage of the column-based kits is that they are less time-consuming, easier to handle and suitable for automatisation of sample preparation. A kit using salt precipitation of the desoxribose nucleic acid (DNA) and proteins was unsuitable for the isolation of viral RNA from the samples.


pmid: 7985409
title: Nucleotide sequence analysis of the structural gene coding region of the pestivirus border disease virus
abstract: Border disease virus (BDV) of sheep, an important ovine pathogen, is serologically related to the two other well characterized members of the Pestivirus genus of the Flaviviridae family, namely bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and hog cholera virus (HoCV). To determine its genetic relationship to BVDV and HoCV, the genome of BDV strain, BD-78 encompassing the 5' untranslated region (UTR) and structural gene coding region was molecularly cloned and the nucleotide sequence determined. The sequenced region of 3,567 nucleotides contained one open reading frame encoding 1063 amino acids. The nucleotide and amino acid sequences of BD-78 were compared with those of two BVDV strains NADL and SD-1, and the Alfort and Brescia strains of HoCV. The overall nucleotide sequence homologies of the region sequenced of BD-78 are 68.3% with BVDV-NADL, 67.8% with BVDV-SD-1, 69.0% with HoCV-Brescia, and 65.8% with HoCV-Alfort. The overall amino acid sequence homologies of BD-78 are 76.1% with NADL, 76.5% with SD-1, 74.2% with Brescia, and 72.9% with Alfort. The most conserved nucleotide and amino acid sequences between BD-78 and the other pestivirueses are in the 5' UTR and the capsid protein coding region (p14), where as the most divergent sequences are in the E2 coding region. These findings suggest that BDV is a unique virus in the Pestivirus genus.


pmid: 27038454
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus structural protein E2 as a complement regulatory protein
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a member of the genus Pestivirus, family Flaviviridae, and is one of the most widely distributed viruses in cattle worldwide. Approximately 60 % of cattle in endemic areas without control measures are infected with BVDV during their lifetime. This wide prevalence of BVDV in cattle populations results in significant economic losses. BVDV is capable of establishing persistent infections in its host due to its ability to infect fetuses, causing immune tolerance. However, this cannot explain how the virus evades the innate immune system. The objective of the present work was to test the potential activity of E2 as a complement regulatory protein. E2 glycoprotein, produced both in soluble and transmembrane forms in stable CHO-K1 cell lines, was able to reduce complement-mediated cell lysis up to 40 % and complement-mediated DNA fragmentation by 50 %, in comparison with cell lines not expressing the glycoprotein. This work provides the first evidence of E2 as a complement regulatory protein and, thus, the finding of a mechanism of immune evasion by BVDV. Furthermore, it is postulated that E2 acts as a self-associated molecular pattern (SAMP), enabling the virus to avoid being targeted by the immune system and to be recognized as self.


pmid: 27014215
title: Evidence of Bovine viral diarrhea virus Infection in Three Species of Sympatric Wild Ungulates in Nevada: Life History Strategies May Maintain Endemic Infections in Wild Populations
abstract: Evidence for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection was detected in 2009-2010 while investigating a pneumonia die-off in Rocky Mountain bighorn sheep (Ovis canadensis, canadensis), and sympatric mountain goats (Oreamnos americanum) in adjacent mountain ranges in Elko County, Nevada. Seroprevalence to BVDV-1 was 81% (N = 32) in the bighorns and 100% (N = 3) in the mountain goats. Serosurveillance from 2011 to 2015 of surviving bighorns and mountain goats as well as sympatric mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus), indicated a prevalence of 72% (N = 45), 45% (N = 51), and 51% (N = 342) respectively. All species had antibody titers to BVDV1 and BVDV2. BVDV1 was isolated in cell culture from three bighorn sheep and a mountain goat kid. BVDV2 was isolated from two mule deer. Six deer (N = 96) sampled in 2013 were positive for BVDV by antigen-capture ELISA on a single ear notch. Wild ungulates and cattle concurrently graze public and private lands in these two mountain ranges, thus providing potential for interspecies viral transmission. Like cattle, mule deer, mountain goats, and bighorn sheep can be infected with BVDV and can develop clinical disease including immunosuppression. Winter migration patterns that increase densities and species interaction during the first and second trimester of gestation may contribute to the long term maintenance of the virus in these wild ungulates. More studies are needed to determine the population level impacts of BVDV infection on these three species.


pmid: 23178968
title: Biological properties of bovine viral diarrhea virus quasispecies detected in the RK13 cell line
abstract: The rabbit kidney cell line RK13 has been reported to be contaminated with noncytopathogenic (ncp) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Persistent infection was confirmed by demonstrating the stability of virus titers (10(4.6±0.5) TCID50/ml) and BVDV positive cells (71.9 ± 3.12 %), over six successive passages. Based on the "exaltation of Newcastle disease virus" (END) and reverse plaque formation methods, two types of ncp viruses were isolated, END-phenomenon-positive and negative. Isolates, RK13/E(+) and RK13/E(-), demonstrated (1) differing levels of reproducibility in cell cultures, (2) similar antigenicity against BVDV antisera, (3) identical 5'-UTR region nucleotide sequences, (4) four amino acid differences throughout the genomic open reading frame, and (5) better growth ability in primary rabbit cells than other laboratory strains when inoculated in parallel at an MOI of 0.01. Overall, the BVDV population in RK13 cells consists of at least two different END characteristic quasispecies that are adapted to cultures of rabbit origin, giving rise to naturally attenuated BVDV strains that can be used in vaccine development.


pmid: 21497387
title: Efficacy of the International Embryo Transfer Society (IETS) washing procedure for rendering oocytes matured in vitro free of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)
abstract: To ensure the freedom of embryos from pathogenic agents prior to embryo transfer (ET), a specific sanitary washing procedure has been recommended by the International Embryo Transfer Society (IETS). In the present study, the efficacy of removing the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) from cumulus-free matured oocytes at the stage of extruded first polar body (N = 240) was evaluated, using the IETS-recommended 10 sequential wash procedure, after exposure in vitro to BVDV type 2 (strain PA-131, 1 × 10(5.2) TCID(50)/mL for 1 h). In general, the percentage of contaminated oocytes was reduced (P < 0.03) after the first two washes. Nevertheless, after 10 washes, approximately 20% of oocytes still remained infectious or contaminated with virus, as detected by the virus isolation test (VI) and quantitative reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR) of viral RNA (on average 13 copies/oocyte). Similarly, a higher percentage of positive washing fluid samples were detected in the first three washes (50-100%). The six subsequent washes had lower but variable proportions of fluid samples contaminated with infectious virus. We concluded that the standard washing procedure may not render all oocytes free from the infectious virus adhered to the zona pellucida (ZP), and application of an additional method of oocyte disinfection was warranted to ensure nontransmission of BVDV to recipients by embryos derived from infected oocytes.


pmid: 19542551
title: Congenital tremor and hypomyelination associated with bovine viral diarrhoea virus in 23 British cattle herds
abstract: This paper presents data from 23 British herds investigated between 1991 and 2007 where neurological disease in calves was caused by bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection. A variety of clinical signs, most commonly tremor or trembling, were apparent in the calves from birth, and most were recumbent or unable to stand unsupported. Severe diffuse neuraxial hypomyelination was present in all of the calves, and immunohistochemistry revealed cerebral neuronal labelling consistent with congenital persistent pestivirus infection in each brain. BVDV was detected in peripheral blood samples from eight of 15 calves tested using an antigen ELISA, and was isolated in culture from samples of viscera, brain or blood collected from 17 of 24 affected calves. TaqMan RT-PCR for pestivirus RNA was positive for BVDV-1 in all six calves tested. Six of the virus isolates on which molecular classification was carried out, obtained from calves in four of the herds, were identified as BVDV-1a, while three isolates from one affected and two unaffected calves on a fifth farm were confirmed as BVDV-1b.


pmid: 11348769
title: Evaluation of a blocking ELISA for the detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) antibodies in serum and milk
abstract: The performance characteristics of a blocking ELISA test applied to serum and individual milk for the detection of antibodies to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) were assessed using 1189 matched milk/serum samples collected from cows of 42 dairy herds located in Brittany (west of France). This test was based on a monoclonal antibody directed against non-structural protein NS2-3 of pestiviruses. All tests were performed blind. For each type of sample, negative/positive cut-off values were determined using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis. Sensitivity and specificity were estimated using the virus neutralisation test as a reference. For sera, the ROC analysis provided a negative/positive inhibition percentage cut-off value of 50% giving a sensitivity and a specificity of 96.9 and 97.8%. For individual milk samples, the cut-off was fixed at 30%, leading to a sensitivity and a specificity of 96.9 and 97.3%. Using this test, a good overall agreement was found between results obtained on matched milk/serum samples (Kappa value=0.95). The present results indicate that this blocking ELISA test is reliable enough for use in a mass screening and control scheme on BVDV.


pmid: 30259142
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus non-structural protein NS4B induces autophagosomes in bovine kidney cells
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an important pathogen in cattle that causes economic losses in livestock industries. Autophagy is an essential cell system for the maintenance of homeostasis and is induced by various triggers, including infection by viruses. BVDV infection leads to autophagy in order to enhance its replication in cells. In this study, we investigated the effect of BVDV non-structural proteins on the induction of autophagosomes. We found that NS4B alone could induce autophagosomes, suggesting a novel and important function of NS4B in BVDV replication.


pmid: 27169147
title: The effect of bovine viral diarrhoea virus on fertility in dairy cows: two case-control studies in the province of Styria, Austria
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) leads to substantial economic losses in beef and dairy herds worldwide. Two case-control studies were carried out using production data from 1996 to 2012 to analyse the impact of BVD virus (BVDV) on fertility in dairy herds in the province of Styria during an eradication programme. In study 1, herds in which at least one persistently BVDV-infected (PI) animal was detected (case herds) were compared to a group of control herds proven free from BVDV infection (contro herds). In study 2, within BVD infected herds the period during which P animals were present (exposed period) was compared to the period after successful BVD eradication (unexposed period). Calving interval (CAl) and the probability of a first service conception (FSC) were used as indicators in a mixed regression model to investigate the impact of BVD on reproductive performance. The model results indicated that BVD had a significant influence on CAl and FSC. Cows from control herds were 1.1 times more likely to conceive at first service compared to cows from case herds and cows served during the BVDV unexposed period were 1.3 times more likely to conceive at first service than those inseminated during the exposed period. In BVD-infected herds the CAI averaged seven days shorter in unexposed periods than in exposed periods. Besides BVD the animal breed and the parity substantially impact the analysed fertility indicators.


pmid: 15731218
title: Dual mechanisms of pestiviral superinfection exclusion at entry and RNA replication
abstract: For many viruses, primary infection has been shown to prevent superinfection by a homologous second virus. In this study, we investigated superinfection exclusion of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a positive-sense RNA pestivirus. Cells acutely infected with BVDV were protected from superinfection by homologous BVDV but not with heterologous vesicular stomatitis virus. Superinfection exclusion was established within 30 to 60 min but was lost upon passaging of persistently infected cells. Superinfecting BVDV failed to deliver a translatable genome into acutely infected cells, indicating a block in viral entry. Deletion of structural protein E2 from primary infecting BVDV abolished this exclusion. Bypassing the entry block by RNA transfection revealed a second block at the level of replication but not translation. This exclusion did not require structural protein expression and was inversely correlated with the level of primary BVDV RNA replication. These findings suggest dual mechanisms of pestivirus superinfection exclusion, one at the level of viral entry that requires viral glycoprotein E2 and a second at the level of viral RNA replication.


pmid: 7924248
title: Immunosuppression as a factor in allowing mucosal disease to occur
abstract: In order to verify the role of immunosuppression in the pathogenesis of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) infection, two experiments have been carried out. In one experiment, calves previously infected with cytopathogenic (CP) or non-cytopathogenic (NCP) BVDV were treated with dexamethasone (DMS) 30 days later. In the other experiment, calves were simultaneously exposed to BVDV infection and to DMS treatment. In both experiments the DMS treated calves developed a more serious disease which in one calf was fatal. It was speculated that immunosuppression represents one of the most significant "key factors" in the occurrence of the bovine viral diarrhea/mucosal disease in cattle.


pmid: 9076604
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus infection in bone marrow of experimentally infected calves
abstract: Colostrum-deprived calves were inoculated with either a field isolate of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) containing cytopathogenic (CP) and noncytopathogenic (NCP) biotypes or with only the NCP biotype. Paraffin wax-embedded sections of bone marrow from these calves, examined by means of an immunoperoxidase method, showed BVDV antigen in megakaryocytes and myeloid cells. Infection of such cells may play a role in the pathogenesis of thrombocytopenia, leucopenia and neutropenia, as reported in cattle infected with BVDV.


pmid: 1325330
title: Genetic diversity and BVD virus
abstract: The various measures of genetic variation of BVD virus was reviewed with emphasis on the implications for future control of virus-induced disease and diagnosis. While experimental data does not support unique serotypes for BVDV, there is substantial antigenic variation among the isolates examined. This variation may permit fetal infections even in animals assumed to be well vaccinated. The genetic differences between cytopathic and noncytopathic strains of BVDV are expressed in infected cells by the production of a p80 protein by cytopathic strains. In addition, cellular gene inserts have been detected in cytopathic strains. Monoclonal antibodies have demonstrated a high degree of diversity with the pestivirus population. Grouping of BVDV isolates by monoclonal antibody analysis is suggestive at best. The use of nucleic acid probes as diagnostic reagents has been compromised by the nucleic acid sequence variation found in the BVDV isolates tested.


pmid: 2174298
title: Flow cytometric detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus in peripheral blood leukocytes of persistently infected cattle
abstract: Flow cytometry was investigated for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes of persistently infected cattle. The mononuclear leukocytes were purified by sedimentation in a gradient of Ficoll-Paque, fixed, permeabilized, and then labelled by indirect immunofluorescence using biotinylated immunoglobulins from a porcine antiserum to BVDV. Flow cytometric analysis of blood samples obtained from persistently infected cattle revealed virus in 3.0-21.0% (mean +/- SD, 11.2% +/- 6.4%) of the mononuclear leukocytes. Fluorescent cells were not observed in controls. Flow cytometric detection of BVDV in blood cells of persistently infected bovines is a rapid and objective technique which does not require cell culture facilities.


pmid: 23582969
title: Mannheimia haemolytica A1-induced fibrinosuppurative meningoencephalitis in a naturally-infected Holstein-Friesian calf
abstract: Mannheimia haemolytica is an opportunistic bacterium that is widely recognized among the bovine respiratory disease complex as the predominant pathogen causing broncho- and pleuropneumonia in cattle. Among the characterized M. haemolytica serotypes, A1 is the major cause of severe pulmonary lesions in cattle. This report describes post-mortem findings in a Holstein-Friesian calf with fibrinosuppurative meningoencephalitis and fibrinonecrotizing, haemorrhagic broncho- and pleuropneumonia, from which M. haemolytica and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) were isolated. Microscopical evaluation showed expansion of the brainstem and cerebellar leptomeninges by neutrophils and fibrin, associated with gram-negative coccobacilli. Occasional blood vessels within the midbrain and cerebellum contained fibrin thrombi. Bacterial culture of cerebellum and lung yielded M. haemolytica with unusually high haemolytic activity. The isolates were confirmed as serotype A1 by rapid plate agglutination. Lung tissue was positive for BVDV by polymerase chain reaction. The broncho- and pleuropneumonia in this calf were consistent with typical mannheimiosis due to serotype A1; however, extrapulmonary infections due to M. haemolytica, as seen in this case, are rarely reported. To our knowledge, this is the first documentation of a natural BVDV and M. haemolytica co-infection associated with fibrinosuppurative meningoencephalitis in a calf.


pmid: 16782064
title: Brefeldin A inhibits pestivirus release from infected cells, without affecting its assembly and infectivity
abstract: The enveloped bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a member of the Pestivirus genus within the Flaviviridae family. While considerable information has been gathered on virus entry into the host cell, genome structure and protein function, little is known about pestivirus morphogenesis and release from cells. Here, we analyzed the intracellular localization, N-glycan processing and secretion of BVDV using brefeldin A (BFA), which blocks protein export from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and causes disruption of the Golgi complex with subsequent fusion of its cis and medial cisternae with the ER. BFA treatment of infected cells resulted in complete inhibition of BVDV secretion and increased co-localization of the envelope glycoproteins with the cis-Golgi marker GM 130. Processing of the N-linked glycans was affected by BFA, however, virus assembly was not perturbed and intracellular virions were fully infectious, suggesting that trafficking beyond the cis-Golgi is not a prerequisite for pestivirus infectivity.


pmid: 25456194
title: Analysis of mRNA expression for genes associated with regulatory T lymphocytes (CD25, FoxP3, CTLA4, and IDO) after experimental infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus of low or high virulence in beef calves
abstract: Immunosuppression caused by bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has been associated with lymphocyte depletion, leukopenia and impairment of leukocyte function; however, no work has been done on the relationship between BVDV and regulatory T lymphocytes (Tregs). The objective of this study was to compare the mRNA expression of genes associated with Tregs (CD25, FoxP3, CTLA4, and IDO), after experimental infection of beef calves with low (LV) or high (HV) virulence BVDV. Thirty BVDV-naïve calves were randomly assigned to three groups. Calves were intra-nasally inoculated with LV (n=10, strain SD-1) or HV (n=10, strain 1373) BVDV or BVDV-free cell culture medium (control, n=10). Quantitative RT-PCR was used to determine the expression of target genes in tracheo-bronchial lymph nodes and spleen on day 5 post-infection. The mRNA expression of CD25 was up-regulated in tracheo-bronchial lymph nodes of LV (P<0.05), but not in HV compared to the control group. The expression of FoxP3 and CTLA4 was not increased in tracheo-bronchial lymph nodes of either of the BVDV-inoculated groups. A dramatic up-regulation of IDO mRNA was observed in tracheo-bronchial lymph nodes of LV (P<0.05), but not HV compared to the control calves. In conclusion, experimental infection with BVDV did not provide evidence of Treg activation based on expression of FoxP3 and CTL4. Differential expression of CD25 and IDO mRNA on day 5 post-infection with HV or LV BVDV might reflect temporal differences in transcription occurring during the immune response elicited by these viral strains, or differences in viral infectivity of the host cells.


pmid: 26952097
title: BVDV alters uterine prostaglandin production during pregnancy recognition in cows
abstract: Embryonic mortality in cows is at least in part caused by failure of pregnancy recognition (PR). Evidence has shown that bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection can disrupt pregnancy. Prostaglandins (PG) play important roles in many reproductive processes, such as implantation. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of BVDV infection on uterine PG production and PR using an in vitro PR model. Bovine uterine endometrial cells isolated from ten BVDV-free cows were cultured and treated with 0 or 100ng/mL interferon-τ (IFNT) in the absence or presence of non-cytopathic BVDV (ncpBVDV). PGF2α and PGE2 concentrations in the spent medium were measured using radioimmunoassays, and in the treated cells expression of the genes associated with PG production and signalling was quantified using qPCR. The results showed that the IFNT challenge significantly stimulated PTGS1 and PTGER3 mRNA expression and PGE2 production; however, these stimulatory effects were neutralised in the presence of ncpBVDV infection. ncpBVDV infection significantly increased PTGS1 and mPGES1 mRNA expression and decreased AKR1B1 expression, leading to increased PGE2 and decreased PGF2α concentrations and an increased PGE2:PGF2α ratio. The other tested genes, including PGR, ESR1, OXTR, PTGS2, PTGER2 and PTGFR, were not significantly altered by IFNT, ncpBVDV or their combination. Our study suggests that BVDV infection may impair PR by (1) inhibiting the effect of IFNT on uterine PG production and (2) inducing an endocrine switch of PG production from PGF2α to PGE2 to decrease uterine immunity, thereby predisposing the animals to uterine disease.


pmid: 17686854
title: The imidazopyrrolopyridine analogue AG110 is a novel, highly selective inhibitor of pestiviruses that targets the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase at a hot spot for inhibition of viral replication
abstract: Ethyl 2-methylimidazo[1,2-a]pyrrolo[2,3-c]pyridin-8-carboxylate (AG110) was identified as a potent inhibitor of pestivirus replication. The 50% effective concentration values for inhibition of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)-induced cytopathic effect, viral RNA synthesis, and production of infectious virus were 1.2 +/- 0.5 microM, 5 +/- 1 microM, and 2.3 +/- 0.3 microM, respectively. AG110 proved inactive against the hepatitis C virus and a flavivirus. AG110 inhibits BVDV replication at a time point that coincides with the onset of intracellular viral RNA synthesis. Drug-resistant mutants carry the E291G mutation in the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp). AG110-resistant virus is cross-resistant to the cyclic urea compound 1453 which also selects for the E291G drug resistance mutation. Moreover, BVDV that carries the F224S mutation (because of resistance to the imidazopyridine 5-[(4-bromophenyl)methyl]-2-phenyl-5H-imidazo[4,5-c]pyridine [BPIP]and VP32947) is also resistant to AG110. AG110 did not inhibit the in vitro activity of recombinant BVDV RdRp but inhibited the activity of BVDV replication complexes (RCs). Molecular modeling revealed that E291 is located in a small cavity near the tip of the finger domain of the RdRp about 7 A away from F224. Docking of AG110 in the crystal structure of the BVDV RdRp revealed several potential contacts including with Y257. The E291G mutation might enable the free rotation of Y257, which might in turn destabilize the backbone of the loop formed by residues 223 to 226, rendering more mobility to F224 and, hence, reducing the affinity for BPIP and VP32947. It is concluded that a single drug-binding pocket exists within the finger domain region of the BVDV RdRp that consists of two separate but potentially overlapping binding sites rather than two distinct drug-binding pockets.


pmid: 1325330
title: Genetic diversity and BVD virus
abstract: The various measures of genetic variation of BVD virus was reviewed with emphasis on the implications for future control of virus-induced disease and diagnosis. While experimental data does not support unique serotypes for BVDV, there is substantial antigenic variation among the isolates examined. This variation may permit fetal infections even in animals assumed to be well vaccinated. The genetic differences between cytopathic and noncytopathic strains of BVDV are expressed in infected cells by the production of a p80 protein by cytopathic strains. In addition, cellular gene inserts have been detected in cytopathic strains. Monoclonal antibodies have demonstrated a high degree of diversity with the pestivirus population. Grouping of BVDV isolates by monoclonal antibody analysis is suggestive at best. The use of nucleic acid probes as diagnostic reagents has been compromised by the nucleic acid sequence variation found in the BVDV isolates tested.


pmid: 2174298
title: Flow cytometric detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus in peripheral blood leukocytes of persistently infected cattle
abstract: Flow cytometry was investigated for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes of persistently infected cattle. The mononuclear leukocytes were purified by sedimentation in a gradient of Ficoll-Paque, fixed, permeabilized, and then labelled by indirect immunofluorescence using biotinylated immunoglobulins from a porcine antiserum to BVDV. Flow cytometric analysis of blood samples obtained from persistently infected cattle revealed virus in 3.0-21.0% (mean +/- SD, 11.2% +/- 6.4%) of the mononuclear leukocytes. Fluorescent cells were not observed in controls. Flow cytometric detection of BVDV in blood cells of persistently infected bovines is a rapid and objective technique which does not require cell culture facilities.


pmid: 16782064
title: Brefeldin A inhibits pestivirus release from infected cells, without affecting its assembly and infectivity
abstract: The enveloped bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a member of the Pestivirus genus within the Flaviviridae family. While considerable information has been gathered on virus entry into the host cell, genome structure and protein function, little is known about pestivirus morphogenesis and release from cells. Here, we analyzed the intracellular localization, N-glycan processing and secretion of BVDV using brefeldin A (BFA), which blocks protein export from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and causes disruption of the Golgi complex with subsequent fusion of its cis and medial cisternae with the ER. BFA treatment of infected cells resulted in complete inhibition of BVDV secretion and increased co-localization of the envelope glycoproteins with the cis-Golgi marker GM 130. Processing of the N-linked glycans was affected by BFA, however, virus assembly was not perturbed and intracellular virions were fully infectious, suggesting that trafficking beyond the cis-Golgi is not a prerequisite for pestivirus infectivity.


pmid: 24924858
title: Quantitative assessment of the risk of introduction of bovine viral diarrhea virus in Danish dairy herds
abstract: A quantitative risk assessment was carried out to estimate the likelihood of introducing bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in Danish dairy herds per year and per trimester, respectively. The present study gives important information on the impact of risk mitigation measures and sources of uncertainty due to lack of data. As suggested in the Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures (SPS Agreement), the OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code was followed for a transparent science-based risk assessment. Data from 2010 on imports of live cattle, semen, and embryos, exports of live cattle, as well as use of vaccines were analyzed. Information regarding the application of biosecurity measures, by veterinarians and hoof trimmers practicing in Denmark and in other countries, was obtained by contacting several stakeholders, public institutions and experts. Stochastic scenario trees were made to evaluate the importance of the various BVDV introduction routes. With the current surveillance system, the risk of BVDV introduction was estimated to one or more introductions within a median of nine years (3-59). However, if all imported animals were tested and hoof trimmers always disinfected the tools used abroad, the risk could be reduced to one or more introductions within 33 years (8-200). Results of this study can be used to improve measures of BVD surveillance and prophylaxis in Danish dairy herds.


pmid: 15308351
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus with deletions in the 5'-nontranslated region: reduction of replication in calves and induction of protective immunity
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) with deletions in the 5'-nontranslated region (5'-NTR) were tested for their suitability as live BVD vaccines. Firstly, the genetic stability of the mutants was established by culturing over 15 passages in bovine cells. Secondly, two deletion mutants and the parent strain CP7-5A were characterised with respect to in vivo replication competence, attenuation and induction of protective immunity against BVDV. Naïve calves (n = 5 per group) were inoculated with mutants d2-31 and d5-57 or CP7-5A and 5 weeks later, a challenge with the BVDV type 1 strain New York was performed. The mutants were found to be genetically and phenotypically stable. Moreover, the results indicate that the mutants were attenuated with regard to effects including pyrexia and drop in leucocyte counts. Infection with the mutants induced moderate to high titers of BVDV neutralizing antibodies and completely prevented viremia after challenge infection with a heterologous BVDV strain. Taken together, the 5'-NTR deletion mutants combine a good safety profile with good efficacy and are therefore well suited as candidate live vaccines.


pmid: 11765806
title: Informative value of an indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) antibodies in milk
abstract: Bulk and individual milk samples from 117 herds located in Brittany (west France) were used to assess: (i) the performance characteristics of an indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) applied to individual milk for the detection of antibodies to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV); and (ii) the relationship between the bulk milk result obtained from this test and the within-herd prevalence of antibody-positive lactating cows. This ELISA test was based on a monoclonal antibody directed against non-structural protein NS2-3 of pestiviruses. At the individual level, based on 1113 matched milk/serum samples, the sensitivity and specificity of this test applied to milk, compared with the virus neutralization test on serum, were 95.0 and 97.7%, respectively. At the herd level, the relationship between the optical density percentage (OD%) of bulk milk and the within-herd prevalence of antibody-positive lactating cows was assessed using the receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analysis. Classes of OD% of bulk milk were determined so that they were associated with minimum intraclass and maximum between-class variances of within-herd prevalence of antibody-positive cows. The ROC analysis resulted in two classes of bulk milk results corresponding to different expected levels of within-herd prevalence. Herds with an OD% of bulk milk < 75% and > or = 75% had a mean observed prevalence of antibody-positive cows of 8.9 and 60.6%, respectively. Herds with a bulk milk result < 75% were expected to be BVDV free, whereas large variations in prevalence of antibody-positive cows existed in the herds with OD% > or = 75%. The test described in this study is suitable to identify herds likely to have a low prevalence of BVDV antibody-positive cows.


pmid: 10227122
title: Airborne transmission of BHV1, BRSV, and BVDV among cattle is possible under experimental conditions
abstract: To control the diseases caused by bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV1), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), and bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV), it is crucial to know their modes of transmission. The purpose of this study was to determine whether these viruses can be transmitted by air to a substantial extent. Calves were housed in two separate isolation stables in which a unidirectional airflow was maintained through a tube in the wall. In one stable, three of the five calves were experimentally infected with BHV1 and later with BRSV. In the BVDV experiment, two calves persistently infected with BVDV (PI-calves) instead of experimentally infected calves, were used as the source of the virus. In all the calves infections were monitored using virus and antibody detection. Results showed that all the three viruses were transmitted by air. BHV1 spread to sentinel calves in the adjacent stable within three days, and BRSV within nine days, and BVDV spread to sentinel calves probably within one week. Although airborne transmission is possibly not the main route of transmission, these findings will have consequences for disease prevention and regulations in control programmes.


pmid: 8581861
title: Epidemiology of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Prevalence studies around the world show that BVDV is widespread in most cattle raising countries. There are significant differences, however, in prevalence between areas, probably the result of differences in cattle population structure and management practice. Direct contact with PI animals is probably the most important method of transmission of infection; however, field studies have shown that some limited spread of infection also occurs in the absence of PI animals. This may be due to contact with acutely infected animals or contact with other species infected with BVDV. Different ways of indirect transmission such as contaminated needles and equipment have been proven experimentally, and indirect transmission is considered to have some importance. If a PI animal is introduced directly into a dairy herd, most animals will be infected within a few months. On many occasions, however, a herd gets infected by other means than direct introduction of PI animals. In these cases, the infection is often spread to only a few animals after which the infections stops. The infection is then reinforced when PI animals are born. Slow and hence prolonged spread of infection in herds without PI animals also has been described, but the mechanism is not fully understood. Family lines of PI animals delivering PI calves are fairly common and can cause the infection to continue for several years. The clinical manifestations, acute BVDV, reproductive disorders, birth of malformed, weak and undersized calves, unthrifty PI animals, and mucosal disease often appear within certain periods. Large variation, however, can occur between herd outbreaks due to variation in virulence of the BVDV strain, housing of the cattle, and variation in transmission patterns. The extensive transmission of infection from PI animals makes different surveillance methods possible. Thus testing of a screening sample of a few young stock of antibodies and determination of antibody titer in bulk milk will often give good indication of presence of PI animals in herds not using BVDV vaccines. In herds using killed vaccine, determination of antibody titers among few young stock can show the presence of PI animals. The high incidence of infection combined with all the different damages that are seen after BVDV infection cause huge economical losses, which on a national level in the UK and Denmark (i.e., areas with widespread occurrence of infection) has been calculated as between 7 and 27 million pounds (between $11 and $42 million) per million calvings. Epidemiologic studies are important as a basis for selection of control strategy. Because of the variation in epidemiology between geographic areas, evaluation of a control strategy in an area preferentially should be based on epidemiologic studies in the same area.


pmid: 15825490
title: Comparison of ear notch immunohistochemistry, ear notch antigen-capture ELISA, and buffy coat virus isolation for detection of calves persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Two techniques performed on skin biopsy samples (ear notches), immunohistochemistry (IHC) and antigen-capture ELISA (AgELISA), were compared for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) persistent infection (PI) in 559 Angus calves between the ages of 1 and 5 months. The calves also were tested for BVDV infection using virus isolation (VI) and reverse transcription (RT)-PCR on buffy coat samples and for antibodies to BVDV types la and 2 by serum neutralization (SN). Sixty-seven of 559 (12.0%) calves tested positive at initial screening by IHC, AgELISA, or VI, and all 67 were kept for a minimum of 3 months and retested monthly by IHC, AgELISA, VI, RT-PCR, and SN. Of the calves positive at initial screening, 59/67 (88.1%) were determined PI and 8/67 (11.9%) were determined acutely infected. Both IHC and AgELISA detected 100% of PI calves; however, IHC and AgELISA also detected 6 and 8 acutely infected calves, respectively, at initial screening. Furthermore, IHC and AgELISA continued to detect 3 and 4 acutely infected calves, respectively, 3 months after initial screening. Three acutely infected calves had IHC staining indistinguishable from PI calves at initial screening. Both IHC and AgELISA are accurate at detecting BVDV-infected calves, but veterinarians and producers should be advised that both tests detect some calves acutely infected with BVDV in addition to PI animals. Repeat testing using VI or RT-PCR on buffy coat samples should be performed at 30 days after initial screening to conclusively discriminate between acute and PI.


pmid: 33600847
title: Effect of bovine viral diarrhea virus on subsequent infectivity of bovine gammaherpesvirus 4 in endometrial cells in primary culture: An in vitro model of viral co-infection
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and bovine gammaherpesvirus 4 (BoHV-4) infect the uterus of cattle, being responsible for huge economic losses. Most of the pathogenesis of BoHV-4 in the bovine reproductive tract has been elucidated by conducting tests on primary cultures. Thus, it is important to have optimal in vitro conditions, avoiding the presence of other pathogens that can alter the results. BVDV is one of the most frequent viral contaminants of cell cultures. Considering that non-cytopathic (NCP) BVDV biotype can generate persistently infected (PI) cattle, which are the major source for virus transmission in susceptible herds, it is important to check products derived from cattle that are intended to be used in research laboratories. The aim of this work was to evaluate how the natural infection of bovine endometrial cells (BEC) with a NCP BVDV strain (BEC + BVDV) affects BoHV-4 replication. We have demonstrated a delay in BoHV-4 gene expression and a decrease in viral load in the extracellular environment in BEC + BDVD cells compared to BEC (BVDV-free) cells. These results confirm that replication of BoHV-4 in BEC primary cultures is affected by previous infection with BVDV. This finding highlights the importance of ruling out BVDV infection in bovine primary cell cultures to avoid biological interference or misinterpretation of results at the time of performing in vitro studies with BoHV-4.


pmid: 34451930
title: Vaccination of Sheep with Bovine Viral Diarrhea Vaccines Does Not Protect against Fetal Infection after Challenge of Pregnant Ewes with Border Disease Virus
abstract: Border Disease (BD) is a major sheep disease characterized by immunosuppression, congenital disorders, abortion, and birth of lambs persistently infected (PI) by Border Disease Virus (BDV). Control measures are based on the elimination of PI lambs, biosecurity, and frequent vaccination which aims to prevent fetal infection and birth of PI. As there are no vaccines against BDV, farmers use vaccines directed against the related Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV). To date, there is no published evidence of cross-effectiveness of BVDV vaccination against BDV infection in sheep. We tested three commonly used BVDV vaccines, at half the dose used in cattle, for their efficacy of protection against a BDV challenge of ewes at 52 days of gestation. Vaccination limits the duration of virus-induced leukopenia after challenge, suggesting partial protection in transient infection. Despite the presence of BDV neutralizing antibodies in vaccinated ewes on the day of the challenge, fetuses of vaccinated and unvaccinated sheep were, two months after, highly positive for BDV RNA loads and seronegative for antibodies. Therefore, BVDV vaccination at half dose was not sufficient to prevent ovine fetal infection by BDV in a severe challenge model and can only be reconsidered as a complementary mean in BD control.


pmid: 33392819
title: Insights into the origin and diversification of bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 subtypes
abstract: In this study, we performed phylogenetic and evolutionary analysis on bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1) sequences to investigate the origin and temporal diversification of different BVDV-1 subtypes. Dated phylogenies using the complete polyprotein sequence were reconstructed, and the time of the most recent common ancestor (tMRCA) was estimated. The results demonstrated that BVDV-1 subtypes clustered into two phylogenetic clades, where the predominant subtypes worldwide grouped together. In the temporal analysis, the tMRCA of BVDV-1 was 1336, and the diversification into different subtypes appears to have occurred around 363 years ago. The present results help to elucidate the origins of BVDV-1 subtypes and the dynamics of ruminant pestiviruses.


pmid: 18999890
title: Genetic analysis of a bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 isolate from Slovakia
abstract: The identification and genetic characterization of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolate 17237 detected in western Slovakia is described. The analysis of 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR), autoprotease (Npro) gene, and structural genes (C, Erns, E1, E2) was carried out. The percentage of nucleotide and deduced amino acid identity in analyzed genes implied that the isolate was closely related to the bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 (BVDV-2). Furthermore, the phylogenetic analysis revealed that this isolate fall into BVDV-2b subtype that is sporadic in Europe. The cleavage sites between viral proteins were similar to the ones of a reference strain of BVDV-2.


pmid: 16835699
title: Vertical transmission of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in mousedeer (Tragulus javanicus) and spread to domestic cattle
abstract: This study investigates the transmission of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) 1f from a persistently infected (PI) lesser Malayan mousedeer to two bovine calves. Different contact routes to two calves were analysed: 1) aerosol contact between two adjacent pens without physical contact; 2) indirect contact by use of common utensils; 3) direct nose-to-nose contact for 30 seconds. One of the calves was infected either by aerosol or indirect contact. The virus sequence in 247 nucleotides in the 5'-UTR was 100% identical in mousedeer and calf. To elucidate the distribution of BVDV within the affected mousedeer family the captive population in a Zoo was analysed. The maternal line of PI animals was maintained, whereas a PI male was able to reproduce and have a non-PI calf. As a consequence of this, six female PI mousedeer were killed; subsequent autopsies did not reveal any lesions. Sequencing mousedeer BVD virus in the E2 region (420 nucleotides) through 4 generations showed only 7 mutations, which were maintained from mother to offspring.


pmid: 16219090
title: Detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus infected cattle--testing tissue samples derived from ear tagging using an Erns capture ELISA
abstract: A new diagnostic approach testing tissue samples derived from cattle ear tagging for bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) antigen in a commercially available antigen capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ACE) was developed. To validate this method, 99 positive and 469 negative samples were tested. With those samples the assay yielded a sensitivity of 100% and specificity of >or=99.6%. Serum and ear tissue samples from 11 persistently infected (PI) BVDV calves were tested. While serum samples were negative after intake of colostrum, the ear tissue samples could be detected positive for BVDV all the time. Testing multiple samples derived from the same ear from PI cattle yielded positive results and low variation. Using cattle ear tags combining the ear tag application with sampling of a small ear tissue plug and testing those tissue samples with an ACE could be a reliable and economic way of BVDV testing.


pmid: 15062478
title: Evolution of bovine viral diarrhea virus vaccines
abstract: Control of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection is economically important to the cattle industry because the virus causes a variety of clinical diseases that adversely affect essentially all stages of the production cycle. Production losses primarily stem from reproductive failure and from immunosuppression during acute BVDV infection, which predisposes calves to respiratory or enteric diseases. Control is achieved by implementing herd health pro-grams focused on limiting exposure by avoiding persistently infected (PI) carrier cattle and by optimizing protective immunity through immunization. Vaccination cannot be relied upon solely to protect against fetal infection and losses due to BVD. This is because no single BVDV vaccine has been shown to give complete fetal protection. In addition to strategic use of vaccines, herd management practices should also be implemented to identify and eliminate PI carrier cattle and to avoid exposure to BVDV infection.


pmid: 12951039
title: An in vitro Flaviviridae replicase system capable of authentic RNA replication
abstract: We have established an in vitro replication system for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a surrogate for the closely-related hepatitis C virus. In an in vitro reaction, BVDV replication complexes synthesize vRNA and replicative form (RF) and replicative intermediate (RI) RNAs. Kinetic and heparin trapping experiments demonstrate the recycling of RF and RI products and the initiation of vRNA synthesis in this system. Consistent with this, quantitative hybridization reveals the asymmetric synthesis of positive and negative strand RNA products. These findings support the notion that RF serves as a template and RI as a precursor in the synthesis of vRNA. Furthermore, the antiviral activity of an NS5B inhibitor was similar in BVDV replicase and infectivity assays. Together, these results indicate that the in vitro activity of BVDV replicase complexes recapitulates RNA replication that occurs in infected cells, providing a system in which to study both mechanisms and inhibitors of Flaviviridae replication.


pmid: 12692293
title: The envelope glycoprotein E2 is a determinant of cell culture tropism in ruminant pestiviruses
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) isolates infect cultured Madin-Darby bovine kidney (MDBK) cells as efficiently as sheep kidney cells. In contrast, border disease virus (BDV) propagates poorly in MDBK cells but infects sheep cells very efficiently. The envelope glycoprotein E2 has been shown to be essential for virus infectivity. To explore the potential role of E2 in pestivirus host range in cell cultures, we engineered a chimeric BVDV with the E2 coding region from BDV. As expected, the BVDV-E2(bdv) chimera retained the ability of BDV to multiply in sheep cells but experienced a remarkable reduction in its ability to propagate and form plaques in MDBK, a phenotype that is characteristic of the E2 donor, BDV31 virus. Control chimeric BVDV bearing a type II E2 demonstrated that the heterologous E2 does not impair replication in MDBK or lamb cells. These results establish a role for E2 in determining the tropism of a pestivirus in cell culture.


pmid: 12134054
title: Recovery of virulent and RNase-negative attenuated type 2 bovine viral diarrhea viruses from infectious cDNA clones
abstract: Cloned cDNA derived from the genome of the virulent type 2 bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strain NY'93/C was sequenced and served for establishment of the infectious cDNA clone pKANE40A. Virus recovered from pKANE40A exhibited growth characteristics similar to those of wild-type BVDV NY'93/C and proved to be clinically indistinguishable from the wild-type virus in animal experiments. A virus mutant in which the RNase residing in the viral glycoprotein E(rns) was inactivated, revealed an attenuated phenotype. The plasmid pKANE40A represents the first infectious cDNA clone established for a type 2 BVDV and offers a variety of new approaches to analyze the mechanisms of BVDV-induced disease in cattle.


pmid: 9805483
title: Evaluation of the suitability of a commercial bovine viral diarrhoea virus antigen capture ELISA for diagnostic testing
abstract: The suitability of a commercial bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) antigen capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for routine diagnostic testing of bovine serum samples was evaluated by comparing the ELISA results of 214 sera with those obtained after two passages in roller tube cultures of fetal bovine lung cells and immunofluorescent staining using fluorescein isothiocyanate-conjugated hyperimmune BVDV anti-serum. In addition, 208 of these samples were tested by virus isolation in a microtitre system followed by indirect immunoperoxidase staining using a pool of two non-competing pestivirus specific monoclonal antibodies. The sensitivity of the ELISA compared with virus isolation followed by immunofluorescent and immunoperoxidase staining was 47.8 and 45.8%, respectively. The corresponding figures of specificity and overall correlation were 95.3 and 95.1%, and 90.2 and 89.4%. Twenty-two of 24 pestivirus isolates from the positive blood samples were typed as BVDV-like by monoclonal antibodies, indicating that the poor sensitivity of the ELISA was not due to the presence of atypical pestiviruses in the test sample. These results suggest that this ELISA is not suitable for testing blood samples for BVDV in a diagnostic laboratory.


pmid: 2170313
title: Investigation of bovine viral diarrhea virus infections in a range beef cattle herd
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections resulting in clinical disease developed in calves, despite vaccination of dams and high maternal BVDV antibody titers in calves. Eight persistently infected (PI) calves born to immunocompetent dams were identified in the herd. Neutralizing BVDV antibody titers of PI calves had decreased greatly by the time the calves were 1 to 2 months old. Antibody titers of PI calves decreased more rapidly than antibody titers of calves that were not PI. Reduced antibody titers in PI calves allowed detection of BVDV in serum specimens of all PI calves by the time they were 8 weeks old. Persistent infection in suspect calves was detectable serologically and was confirmed by virologic examination of serum specimens 4 months after weaning, when the calves were 9 months old. Growth rates were reduced in viremic calves.


pmid: 29934642
title: Strategies for screening young stock for antibodies - optimising numbers to test, cut-points, & predictive values for bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: The antibody seroprevalence of young stock can be a useful indicator of recent or current infection in a herd. We examine the factors that contribute to the assessment of herd exposure to disease, via spot testing for antibody, using bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDv) as an example. A statistical distribution of seroprevalences for BVDv in beef herds identified three groups of herds: low, intermediate and high within-herd BVDv antibody seroprevalence. We tested two assumptions -the intermediate seroprevalence group of herds is assumed to be negative for BVDv at the herd level and alternatively if this group is assumed to be positive. We found that: The herd-level sensitivity and specificity are sensitive to the assumption regarding the herds with intermediate seroprevalence. If an appropriate cut-point is chosen, reducing the sample size from ten to five does not produce a large drop in herd-level test performance. Increasing the cut-point may be valuable at the outset of an eradication programme. Increasing the sample size and decreasing the cut-point is advantageous towards the end of an eradication programme, to minimise the risk of positive herds being misclassified. The framework presented here illustrates how seroprevalence screening may be understood and assessed.


pmid: 24476940
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus infections: manifestations of infection and recent advances in understanding pathogenesis and control
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) continues to be of economic significance to the livestock industry in terms of acute disease and fetal loss. Many of the lesions relating to BVDV infection have been well described previously. The virus is perpetuated in herds through the presence of calves that are persistently infected. Relationships between various species and biotypes of BVDV and host defenses are increasingly understood. Understanding of the host defense mechanisms of innate immunity and adaptive immunity continues to improve, and the effects of the virus on these immune mechanisms are being used to explain how persistent infection develops. The noncytopathic biotype of BVDV plays the major role in its effects on the host defenses by inhibiting various aspects of the innate immune system and creation of immunotolerance in the fetus during early gestation. Recent advances have allowed for development of affordable test strategies to identify and remove persistently infected animals. With these improved tests and removal strategies, the livestock industry can begin more widespread effective control programs.


pmid: 9874100
title: Distribution of bovine virus diarrhoea virus in tissues and white blood cells of cattle during acute infection
abstract: This study is performed to gain knowledge about the quantitative distribution of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in tissues and white blood cells (WBC) at different intervals after acute infection. Ten specific pathogen-free calves were intranasally inoculated with 10(5) 50% tissue culture infective dose of the non-cytopathic BVDV strain 4800. Twelve hours after inoculation tonsil biopsies were taken and WBC were collected daily for virus isolation and titration. Each day one calf was killed and virus isolations and titrations were performed from a range of tissues. The results indicate that BVDV first replicates in nasal mucosa and to high titers in the tonsil. The virus then appeared to spread to the regional lymph nodes and then disseminates throughout the body. The virus titers were highest in tonsil, thymus and ileum and were low in the WBC. Also after in vitro infection virus titers in WBC were very low, whereas, they were high in epithelial cells. Although the WBC might not be as important as other cells for replication of BVDV, they may play a role in the spread of the virus throughout the body.


pmid: 17303270
title: Sensitivity analysis to identify key-parameters in modelling the spread of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in a dairy herd
abstract: Models have been developed to represent the spread of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in cattle herds. Whereas the herd dynamics is well known, biological data are missing to estimate the parameters of the infection process. Our objective was to identify the parameters of the infection process that highly influence the spread of BVDV in a dairy herd. A stochastic compartmental model in discrete time represented BVDV infection in a typical Holstein dairy herd structured into five groups (calves, young versus older heifers, lactating versus dry cows). Model sensitivity was analysed for variations in the probability of birth of persistently infected (P) calves (b(P)), mortality of P animals (m(P)), within- and between-group transmission rates for P and transiently infected (T) animals (respectively, beta(w)(P),beta(b)(P),beta(w)(T),beta(b)(T)). Three to five values were tested per parameter. All possible combinations of parameter values were explored, representing 3840 scenarios with 200 runs for each. Outputs were: virus persistence 1 year after introduction, time needed to reach a probability of 80% for the herd to be virus-free, epidemic size, mean numbers of immune dams carrying a P foetus, of P and of T animals in infected herds. When considered together, m(P) and beta(b)(P) accounted for 40-80% of variance of all outputs; b(P) and beta(w)(T) accounted each for less than 20% of variance; beta(b)(T) and beta(w)(P) accounted for almost no percent of variance of the outputs. Parameters beta(w)(T) and b(P) needed to be more precisely estimated. The influence of m(P) indicated the effectiveness of culling P calves, the influence of beta(b)(P) indicated the role of the herd structure in BVDV spread, whereas the influence of b(P) indicated the possible role of vaccination programs in controlling within-herd BVDV spread.


pmid: 14602200
title: Differences in membrane association and sub-cellular distribution between NS2-3 and NS3 of bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: The sub-cellular location and mechanism of membrane association of NS3 and NS2-3 polypeptides of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) have been examined. Both NS3 and NS2-3 proteins were detected in post-nuclear membrane fractions but not in cytosolic fractions of BVDV infected cells; a proportion of NS3, but not NS2-3, could be dissociated from the membranes with 800 mM KCl or at pH 11. Following extraction with 1% Triton X-114, NS3 was predominantly present in the aqueous phase, but NS2-3 was only recovered in the detergent phase. Confocal microscopy showed that in BVDV infected cells, NS3 and/or NS2-3 co-localise with the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) protein, ERP60, but not Golgi or lysosomal proteins. Sub-cellular fractionation analysis demonstrated that NS2-3 was almost exclusively associated with the rough ER membrane but a significant proportion of NS3 was present in the smooth ER membrane fractions in addition to the rough ER membrane. These differences in the distribution of NS2-3 and NS3 on ER membranes in cells infected with cytopathogenic (CP) strains of BVDV were also observed using confocal microscopy and antibodies that are specific to either NS2 or NS3. This distinct distribution of NS3 and NS2-3 on the ER membrane has revealed a further difference between CP and non-cytopathogenic (NCP) strains of BVDV.


pmid: 22871358
title: BVDV: a pestivirus inducing tolerance of the innate immune response
abstract: Animals persistently infected (PI) with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) retain a strain-specific B- and T-cell immunotolerance. Pestiviral RNA triggers interferon (IFN) synthesis, and the viral RNase E(rns) inhibits IFN expression induced by extracellular viral RNA. In addition, N(pro) promotes the degradation of the transcription factor IRF-3, which effectively blocks IFN expression in BVDV-infected cells. As not all the potential target cells are infected in PI animals, these are 'chimeric' with respect to BVDV. This suggests that N(pro) and E(rns) are non-redundant IFN antagonists that act in infected and non-infected cells, respectively. Moreover, E(rns) may take a paradoxical function, both as virulence as well as "attenuation" factor: The former by preventing the activation of the innate and, consequently, of the adaptive immune system, the latter by minimizing the detrimental effects of systemic IFN production. Thus, BVDV maintains "self-tolerance" by avoiding the induction of IFN while itself being largely resistant to it without, however, interfering with the IFN action against unrelated viruses ('nonself'). This unique extension of 'self' to a virus suggests that the host's own RNases may have evolved as a guard against inadvertent activation of the innate immune system by host RNA, thus establishing a state of "innate tolerance".


pmid: 22119481
title: A nested PCR approach for unambiguous typing of pestiviruses infecting cattle
abstract: An atypical pestivirus ('Hobi'-like pestivirus, putative bovine viral diarrhoea 3, BVDV-3) was identified firstly in contaminated foetal calf serum batches and isolated subsequently from an outbreak of respiratory disease in a cattle herd in Italy. The isolation of the novel pestivirus from animals affected clinically posed concerns about the validity of BVDV eradication programs, considering that 'Hobi'-like pestivirus (BVDV-3) is undetected or mistyped by the molecular diagnostic tools currently employed. In this paper, the development of a nested PCR (nPCR) assay for unambiguous typing of all bovine pestiviruses is reported. The assay consisted of a first-round amplification using an oligonucleotide pair which binds to conserved sequences located in the 5' untranslated region and capsid gene, followed by a heminested PCR using virus-specific forward primers. The assay performances were evaluated analytically, showing good sensitivity and specificity. By analysis of 100 BVDV-positive samples typed using a nPCR assay discriminating ruminant pestiviruses, five samples recognised previously as BVDV-2 were not typed when submitted to the new assay (n=2) or reacted as 'Hobi'-like pestivirus BVDV-3 (n=3). Sequence analysis of the first-round amplification products showed that the untyped strains were border disease viruses, whereas the other three strains were true 'Hobi'-like viruses. The development of a molecular assay able to identify simultaneously all bovine pestiviruses known currently will help warrant biosafety of live vaccines and other biological products and assess the molecular epidemiology of 'Hobi'-like pestivirus, thus leading to the improvement of the eradication programs through unambiguous typing of pestiviruses infecting cattle.


pmid: 21128116
title: Seroprevalence of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis and bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 and type 2 in non-vaccinated cattle herds in the Pacific Region of Central Costa Rica
abstract: The objectives of this cross-sectional study were to estimate the seroprevalence of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR, BHV-1) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in a population of non-vaccinated, double purpose, dairy and beef herds in the Pacific Region of Central Costa Rica. Blood samples were collected from a total of 496 animals from 35 herds. Sera were tested for antibodies against BHV-1(IBR) and BVDV types 1 and 2 using serum neutralization test. The average number of animals tested in each herd for each of the viruses was 14. Overall individual seroprevalence was 48%, 27%, and 19% for IBR, BVDV type 1, and BVDV type 2, respectively. Median within-herd seroprevalence for IBR, BVDV type 1 and type 2 were 43%, 27%, and 24%, respectively.


pmid: 19837521
title: Use of molecular and milk production information for the cost-effective diagnosis of bovine viral diarrhoea infection in New Zealand dairy cattle
abstract: An increase in veterinary and farmer interest in bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) in New Zealand over recent years led to requests for cost-effective identification of BVD virus (BVDV) infected herds and individuals. This study was undertaken to determine if the use of real-time reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technology and dairy cow production data could identify persistently infected (PI) animals in milking herds. Milk samples were collected from the vats of dairy herds and tested for the presence of BVDV by RT-PCR till four herds were found containing PI animals. Individual serum samples were then collected from every cow in the herd and tested by both RT-PCR and antigen capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ACE) to identify the PI animals. Individual animal testing found 1/223, 1/130, 2/800 and 1/275 PI's respectively in the four herds. Based on these results a maximum pool size of 400 cows contributing to the bulk tank milk was selected. After removal of the PI from the herds, further bulk milk samples were shown to be BVDV negative by RT-PCR. All the PI animals identified by this method were found in the lowest producing 10-20% of herd. This approach of targeted testing of dairy herds using PCR technology, in conjunction with animal production information, markedly reduced the cost of diagnostic testing for BVDV in dairy herds in New Zealand. Questionnaire follow-up on 81 BVDV-positive herds (15% of those tested) indicated the stratification approach identified milking PIs successfully over 90% of the time and reduced the number of individual tests to 12% of the milking herd.


pmid: 31378773
title: Slaughterhouse survey for detection of bovine viral diarrhea infection among beef cattle in Kyushu, Japan
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) footprint has spread across the globe and is responsible for one of the most economically important diseases in cattle. In Japan, some regional surveillance and preventive measures to control bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) have been implemented. However, BVDV infection is poorly understood in cattle industries, and there is no systematic BVD surveillance system and control program. Kyushu is the center for raising beef cattle in Japan. Therefore, this study aimed to determine the BVDV infection using a slaughterhouse survey among beef cattle in Kyushu, Japan. A total of 1,075 blood samples were collected at two regional slaughterhouses in Miyazaki prefecture from December 2015 to June 2016. Antigen ELISA was used for detection of BVDV antigen in blood samples. Two samples showed positive results (2/1,075; 0.18%). BVDV RNA was extracted from positive blood samples; the sequence was determined and analyzed by the neighbor-joining method for construction of the phylogenetic tree. Phylogenetic analysis based on the 5'-UTR revealed that the two positive samples were grouped into the same subtype BVDV-1b in the BVDV-1 genotype, but the infected cattle belonged to two different farms. In conclusion, this is the first study to identify the presence of BVDV in a slaughterhouse survey in Kyushu. These findings suggest that a slaughterhouse survey is a useful tool for developing a surveillance system for monitoring infectious diseases in cattle.


pmid: 10497347
title: Effect of bovine herpesvirus-1 or bovine viral diarrhea virus on development of in vitro-produced bovine embryos
abstract: In previous experiments, zona pellucida (ZP)-intact in vitro-produced (IVP) embryos incubated for 1 hr with 10(6.3) TCID(50)/ml bovine herpes virus-1 (BHV-1), 10(5.3) TCID(50)/ml cytopathic (CP) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) or 10(5.3) TCID(50)/ml noncytopathic (NCP) BVDV showed no signs of virus replication or embryonic degeneration. The aims of the present study were to investigate whether a prolonged presence (24 hr or 8 days) of 10(6.3) TCID(50)/ml BHV-1 or 10(5.3) TCID(50)/ml BVDV in an in vitro embryo production system affected the rate of cleavage and embryonic development of ZP-intact embryos, and to point out eventual causes of adverse effects. When virus was present in each step of an IVP system, significantly lower rates of cleavage and blastocyst formation of virus-exposed embryos were observed, in comparison with control embryos (P < 0.01). When embryos were only exposed to virus during the in vitro fertilization (IVF), the rates of cleavage and blastocyst formation were significantly affected. The introduction of BHV-1 or BVDV during in vitro maturation (IVM) or in vitro culture (IVC) resulted only in significantly lower rates of blastocyst (P < 0.01). In all experiments, virus replication was not detected in the embryonic cells. On the other hand, virus replication was clearly demonstrated in oviductal cells in the co-culture system, resulting in a degeneration of these cells. In an additional experiment, synthetic oviduct fluid (SOF) without somatic cells was used as an alternative culture system. Even when SOF-embryos were exposed to 10(6.3) TCID(50)/ml BHV-1 or 10(5.3) TCID(50)/ml CP, and NCP BVDV, the rates of blastocyst formation of the BHV-1-, CP-, and NCP BVDV-exposed embryos were not different from the unexposed control embryos, 23%, 24%, and 24%, respectively, vs. 27%. Taken together, it can be concluded that the virus-induced adverse effects on embryonic development in conventional co-cultures were due to changes in the embryonic environment caused by infection of oviductal cells.


pmid: 23009803
title: Comparison of virucidal activity of alcohol-based hand sanitizers versus antimicrobial hand soaps in vitro and in vivo
abstract: Three ethanol-based sanitizers were compared with three antimicrobial liquid soaps for their efficacy to inactivate polio-, adeno-, vaccinia- and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) as well as feline calicivirus (FCV) and murine norovirus (MNV) as surrogates for human norovirus in a suspension test. Additionally, sanitizers and soaps were examined against MNV in a modified fingerpad method. All sanitizers sufficiently inactivated the test viruses in the suspension test whereas two soaps were active only against vaccinia virus and BVDV. In the modified fingerpad test a povidone-iodine-containing soap was superior to the sanitizers whereas the other two soaps showed no activity.


pmid: 2370675
title: Pestivirus glycoprotein which induces neutralizing antibodies forms part of a disulfide-linked heterodimer
abstract: Neutralizing monoclonal antibodies directed against hog cholera virus (HCV) precipitated two HCV-encoded glycoproteins, HCV gp55 and HCV gp33. Immunoassay with bacterial fusion proteins and Western immunoblotting with extracts from infected cells revealed that the antibodies recognized only HCV gp55. Coprecipitation of HCV gp33 was shown to be due to intermolecular disulfide bridges. One of the antibodies also reacted with the major glycoprotein of another pestivirus, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). The analogous BVDV glycoproteins exhibited a distribution of cysteine residues which was almost identical to that of HCV gp55 and gp33. The two BVDV glycoproteins were also linked by disulfide bridges.


pmid: 2544969
title: Experimental infection of cattle in early pregnancy with a cytopathic strain of bovine virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: Nine pregnant heifers, in early gestation (63 to 107 days), were infected intranasally or in utero with cytopathic bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and each dam seroconverted. All nine calves developed to full term; four were stillborn, of which one had seroconverted but virus was not recovered from their tissues. One of the five liveborn calves appeared to have seroconverted in utero to an adventitious BVDV infection in late pregnancy but the remaining four were not viraemic and showed a normal secondary antibody response to BVDV infection at about six months old. Thus, in contrast to results with noncytopathic virus there was no evidence that infection in utero with cytopathic virus could result in a persistent viraemia or immunotolerance. It is suggested that cells able to support a persistent viraemia with cytopathic virus may not be developed in the young fetus.


pmid: 16963129
title: Multiple recombinant ELISA for the detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus antibodies in cattle sera
abstract: The most immunogenic proteins (E0, E2 and NS3) of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) (NADL strain) were expressed in the baculovirus/insect cells system. Recombinant antigens were applied to the design of enzyme immunoabsorbent assays (ELISAs) for the detection of specific antibodies in cattle sera. The assays developed were shown to be highly sensitive and specific in comparison with the viral neutralization test, which is the reference test for the serological diagnosis of BVDV. The present results demonstrate the contribution of each recombinant antigen to determine clearly the pattern of anti-BVDV antibodies in bovine serum samples.


pmid: 1851350
title: Border disease in sheep caused by transmission of virus from cattle persistently infected with bovine virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: Two outbreaks of border disease occurred on farms with sheep flocks and breeding cattle. The infection of the pregnant sheep was probably caused by transmission of virus from calves persistently infected with non-cytopathic bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) which were kept in close confinement with the ewes during mid-pregnancy. Border disease was also induced experimentally in eight lambs by exposing their dams at 38 to 78 days of gestation to a heifer persistently infected with BVDV. Both the natural and the experimental infections were characterised by typical signs such as 'hairy-shaker' lambs and high lamb mortality. The diagnosis was confirmed by virus isolations from live-born lambs, seroconversion and pathology. The study supports the assertion that cattle persistently infected with BVDV and in close contact with pregnant sheep, are an important source of strains of virus capable of causing border disease.


pmid: 31861316
title: Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus Infection Disrupts Uterine Interferon Stimulated Gene Regulatory Pathways During Pregnancy Recognition in Cows
abstract: In cattle, conceptus-derived interferon tau (IFNT) is the pregnancy recognition (PR) signal. Our previous studies showed that non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhoea virus (ncpBVDV) infection inhibited IFNT-induced interferon stimulated gene (ISG) expression, potentially causing early embryonic death. This study investigated the effect of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection on upstream regulatory pathways of ISG production using an established PR model. Uterine endometrial cells from 10 apparently healthy and BVDV free cows were cultured and treated with 0 or 100 ng/mL IFNT for 24 h in the presence or absence of ncpBVDV infection. Microarray and pathway analysis were used to determine the IFNT-induced upstream regulators. Expression of the genes associated with the identified pathways were quantified with qPCR. IFNT challenge activated the signalling pathways associated with IFN receptors, JAK1/TYK2, IRFs and STATs and ncpBVDV infection inhibited the activation of IFNT on this pathway. Inhibition of this upstream signalling pathway may thus reduce ISG production to disrupt maternal PR. In addition, the reduction of uterine immunity by ncpBVDV infection may predispose the animals to uterine infection, which in turn impairs their reproductive performance. This provides a mechanism of how BVDV infection leads to early pregnancy failure in cows.


pmid: 25135492
title: Immunogenicity of recombinant BCGs expressing predicted antigenic epitopes of bovine viral diarrhea virus E2 gene
abstract: To develop a vaccine to prevent diseases caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) simultaneously, recombinant Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (rBCG) vaccines expressing different regions of the BVDV E2 gene were constructed. Using DNASTAR 6.0 software, potential antigenic epitopes were predicted, and six regions were chosen to generate recombinant plasmids with the pMV361 vector (pMV361-E2-1, pMV361-E2-2, pMV361-E2-3, pMV361-E2-4, pMV361-E2-5 and pMV361-E2-6, respectively). The recombinant plasmids were transformed into BCG, and protein expression was thermally induced at 45 °C. Mice were immunized with 5 × 10(6) CFU/200 µL of each rBCG strain. Compared with other groups, BVDV E2 specific antibody titers were higher in mice immunized with rBCG-E2-6. Ratios and numbers of CD4+, CD8+ and IL-12 expressing spleen lymphocytes of the rBCG-E2-6 group also were higher than those of other groups. Thus, the rBCG-E2-6 vaccine showed the highest immunogenicity of all groups based on the humoral and cellular responses to vaccination.


pmid: 10826831
title: Pooled-sample testing as a herd-screening tool for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus persistently infected cattle
abstract: The study was conducted to develop methodology for least-cost strategies for using polymerase chain reaction (PCR)/probe testing of pooled blood samples to identify animals in a herd persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Cost was estimated for 5 protocols using Monte Carlo simulations for herd prevalences of BVDV persistent infection (BVDV-PI) ranging from 0.5% to 3%, assuming a cost for a PCR/probe test of $20. The protocol associated with the least cost per cow involved an initial testing of pools followed by repooling and testing of positive pools. For a herd prevalence of 1%, the least cost per cow was $2.64 (95% prediction interval = $1.72, $3.68), where pool sizes for the initial and repooled testing were 20 and 5 blood samples per pool, respectively. Optimization of the least cost for pooled-sample testing depended on how well a presumed prevalence of BVDV-PI approximated the true prevalence of BVDV infection in the herd. As prevalence increased beyond 3%, the least cost increased, thereby diminishing the competitive benefit of pooled testing. The protocols presented for sample pooling have general application to screening or surveillance using a sensitive diagnostic test to detect very low prevalence diseases or pathogens in flocks or herds.


pmid: 10405307
title: Immunohistochemical demonstration of bovine viral diarrhoea virus antigen in the pancreatic islet cells of cattle with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus
abstract: The pancreatic islets were studied in seven cattle with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) associated with persistent bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection. BVDV antigen was detected immunohistochemically in the pancreatic islet cells. There was a decrease in the size and number of islets, vacuolar degeneration of residual islet cells, and lymphocytic insulitis. The atrophied islets were composed of small uniform cells with limited amounts of cytoplasm, containing a small number of insulin- and chromogranin-positive granules. Enlarged islets consisting of islet cells with vacuolated cytoplasm were also frequently observed. Many of the vacuolated islet cells differed from the cells of normal islets in containing fewer cytoplasmic insulin- and chromogranin-positive granules. Mild lymphocytic insulitis was observed frequently in enlarged islets but rarely in atrophied islets. Immunoreactivity with BVDV antibody was found in the acinar cells of the pars exocrina in all seven cattle and in the residual cells of the islets of Langerhans of four cattle. BVDV antigen-positive cells were seen more frequently in the enlarged islets than in the atrophied islets. Some islets with lymphocytic infiltrates showed a small number of antigen-positive cells. These findings suggest that autoimmune IDDM was induced by persistent BVDV infection, resulting in gradual destruction of the islet beta cells.


pmid: 12185269
title: Quasispecies in the 5' untranslated genomic region of bovine viral diarrhoea virus from a single individual
abstract: The variability of the 5' untranslated genomic region (5'UTR) of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) RNA obtained from a single individual was analysed. Lung, kidney and spleen tissues from a naturally infected foetus were used as the source of viral RNA. A fragment of 288 bases of the internal ribosome entry site from the BVDV 5'UTR was amplified by RT-PCR using a proofreading DNA polymerase. PCR products were cloned into pGem and, subsequently, transformed into Escherichia coli. The single-strand conformational polymorphisms of 158 lung-derived clones were analysed; a total of 11 banding patterns was observed. DNAs corresponding to all patterns were sequenced. Of the randomly selected clones, 11 and 10 clones derived from the kidney and spleen, respectively, were also sequenced. All sequences presented differences ranging from 1 to 6 nt substitutions. Analysis of the secondary structure of the variant sequences and comparisons to variant nucleotide sites from the 5'UTR of several BVDV isolates showed that the observed changes were almost free of randomness. Clustering and phylogenetic analyses suggested the existence of low-kinetic variants. BVDV quasispecies may be involved in establishing persistent infections by means of eluding maternal antibodies. The methods described here may be adapted easily both to analyse large numbers of samples from other genomic regions and for the study of BVDV quasispecies evolution in other systems.


pmid: 30036856
title: Effects of injectable trace minerals administered concurrently with a modified live virus vaccine on long-term protection against bovine viral diarrhea virus acute infection in dairy calves
abstract: The objective was to evaluate the effects of injectable trace minerals (ITM) concurrent with modified-live virus (MLV) vaccination on protection from bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in dairy calves. In a previous study (Palomares et al., 2016), thirty dairy calves received two doses of a MLV vaccine subcutaneously (SC), concurrently with ITM (n = 15) or saline (n = 15), SC. Five months later, 20 of these calves received ITM (G1, n = 10) or saline (G2, n = 10) according to their previous groups and were challenged intranasally with BVDV2. Five unvaccinated calves were also challenged with BVDV2 (G3). Blood samples were collected on days 0 (BVDV challenge), 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 14, 18, 21, 32 and 61 for leukocyte count, virus isolation and BVDV serum neutralizing antibodies (SNA). Mild-moderate clinical signs were observed in G3 after BVDV challenge. Group 1 showed lower sum health score and nasal score on d5 and fecal score on d8 compared to G2. Rectal temperature and leukocyte counts were not different between G1 and G2. In contrast, G3 calves had significant leukopenia and lymphopenia from d3 to d7 (P < .05) and higher rectal temperatures on d6 to d8, compared to values on d0 (P < .05). All unvaccinated calves became viremic, while viremia was not detected in G1 or G2. Average daily gain was not different between vaccinated groups, however, only G1 calves had significantly greater (P = .04) ADG compared to non-vaccinated calves during the first 14 days post challenge. Vaccinated calves treated or not with ITM were protected from BVDV2 infection five months post-vaccination.


pmid: 25445793
title: Expression of E2 gene of bovine viral diarrhea virus in Pichia pastoris: a candidate antigen for indirect Dot ELISA
abstract: The E2 gene containing the EcoR I and Not I sites of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was amplified from the plasmid pMD-18T-E2 of the HB-bd isolated, and inserted into Pichia pastoris (P. pastoris) expression vector pPIC9K, and transfected into Escherichia coli DH5α. The recombinant plasmid pPIC9K-E2 was digested by the SalI restriction enzyme and transformed into the P. pastoris strain GS115 by electroporation. High copy integrative transformants were obtained by G418 screening and induced for expression with methanol. The expressed products in the culture medium were identified by the sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), the Western blotting and the antibody test for immunity. An indirect Dot-ELISA for the detection of antibody against BVDV was established by the recombinant E2 protein as the coating antigen. The reaction conditions of the indirect Dot-ELISA were optimized. The coating concentration of the E2 recombinant protein antigen, the dilution of serum sample, the optimal concentration of HRP labeled antibody, the optimal blocking reagent and blocking time were studied. 100 sera samples from cows in the field were tested for the antibody against BVDV by the Dot-ELISA and the IDEXX HerdChek BVDV antibody ELISA kit simultaneously to compare the specificity, sensitivity and accuracy. The results showed that the expressed products in the culture medium resulted in single band of 44kDa by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting. The results of the immunogenicity assay indicated that the protein E2 expressed in P. pastoris could induce the experimental animals of the rabbit to produce BVDV specific antibodies. The results of the indirect Dot-ELISA showed that the optimal coating concentration of the E2 recombinant protein was 2.0μg/mL, the bovine serum dilution was 1:100, the optimal concentration of HRP-labeled rabbit anti-bovine antibody IgG was 1:500, and the optimal blocking reagent was 3% glutin-TBS and blocking for 45min. The indirect Dot-ELISA showed 96.7%, 92.5% and 95% in the terms of specificity, sensitivity and accuracy compared to the IDEXX ELISA test kit. The indirect Dot-ELISA using the E2 recombinant protein can be used for the detection of antibody against the BVDV and could be considered in the surveillance programs.


pmid: 11085469
title: A universal 'one-tube' RT-PCR protocol for amplifying isolates of bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: The increase in the knowledge of the genetic variability of BVDV and the identification of some of the genetic determinants of its pathogenicity require robust and practical tools for rapid molecular characterization of the various genotypes of this virus. This study was undertaken to develop a standard protocol for RT-PCR that allows the amplification of various parts of the genome of BVDV without the need for optimizing each individual reaction. The reaction set-up is very flexible because it consists of two pre-mixes. These are a master mix, with all the required reagents except the desired primers, which are the components of the second pre-mix and are therefore easily interchangeable between the different reactions. After adding any primer-containing pre-mix to the fixed master mix, a non-interrupted cycling protocol led to the generation of amplicons of up to 4 kbp in size in amounts sufficient for subsequent sequencing reactions. The method was applied to five different regions of the BVDV genome: (i) the well-known 5'-UTR to differentiate genotypes I and II; (ii) the entire E2 gene, or an approximately 550 bp region within the E2 gene, in order to find the molecular equivalent of antigenic varieties; (iii) the entire structural protein coding region covering the Npro, capsid, ERNs, E1 and E2 genes: (iv) a 2.1 kbp region embracing the NS2/3 junction which is known to be cleaved in cytopathic biotypes of BVDV; and (v) the region covering the entire NS4B and NS5A/B genes. All six RT-PCRs were successfully applied using (i) primers with lengths of between 20 and 52 nucleotides, (ii) an aliquot of RNA extracted from either 10(6) infected bovine embryonal lung cells or the same number of leukocytes from viraemic cattle, and (iii) all the genotype I and II strains of BVDV tested. The technique described was used to generate various Sindbis virus/BVDV recombinants. The correct processing of the amplicon-derived E2 glycoprotein of BVDV strain PT810 was demonstrated by its reaction with a monoclonal antibody in an immunofluorescence assay. Given the variety of RT-PCRs tested, we conclude that this universal protocol may be useful with other RNA viruses.


pmid: 21856021
title: Response of proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines in calves with subclinical bovine viral diarrhea challenged with bovine herpesvirus-1
abstract: The aim of this work was to investigate the susceptibility of calves infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) against secondary infections. For this purpose, the profile of cytokines implicated in the immune response of calves experimentally infected with a non-cytopathic strain of BVDV type-1 and challenged with bovine herpesvirus 1.1 (BHV-1.1) was evaluated in comparison with healthy animals challenged only with BHV-1.1. The immune response was measured by serum concentrations of cytokines (IL-1β, TNFα, IFNγ, IL-12, IL-4 and IL-10), acute phase proteins (haptoglobin, serum amyloid A and fibrinogen) and BVDV and BHV-1.1 specific antibodies. BVDV-infected calves displayed a great secretion of TNFα and reduced production of IL-10 following BHV-1 infection, leading to an exacerbation of the inflammatory response and to the development of more intense clinical symptoms and lesions than those observed in healthy animals BHV-1-inoculated. A Th1 immune response, based on IFNγ production and on the absence of significant changes in IL-4 production, was observed in both groups of BHV-1-infected calves. However, whereas the animals inoculated only with BHV-1 presented an IFNγ response from the start of the study and high expression of IL-12, the BVDV-infected calves showed a delay in the IFNγ production and low levels of IL-12. This alteration in the kinetic and magnitude of these cytokines, involved in cytotoxic mechanisms responsible for limiting the spread of secondary pathogens, facilitated the dissemination of BHV-1.1 in BVDV-infected calves.


pmid: 27478031
title: Activity of bis(7-hydroxycoumarin) Mannich bases against bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Some Mannich bases of 7-hydroxycoumarins (3-6) with piperazine or other amines bearing two secondary amine groups were prepared and tested against viruses representative of RNA families. All compounds were symmetrical and possessed two identical coumarin moieties with respect to one diamine. In the series of 7-hydroxy derivatives, 3a was endowed with a significant activity against BVDV. Then, some of these double Mannich bases were alkylated and acylated. Among the propyloxy derivatives, only 3f showed a modest activity against BVDV. Among the acyl derivatives, the p-nitrobenzoyl derivative 3i emerged as the most active compound; in this series, the p-nitrobenzoyl derivative 3j also exhibited good action against BVDV and modest activity against CVB-5. On the whole, the compounds presented here show some differences, with respect to previous studies in terms of SAR from similar Mannich bases of 7-hydroxycoumarin.


pmid: 27344911
title: Retrospective epidemiological evaluation of molecular and animal husbandry data within the bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) control programme in Western Austria during 2009-2014
abstract: A retrospective epidemiological investigation of molecular and animal husbandry data collected over an observation period of five years (2009-2014) within the compulsory bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) control programme in Western Austria, covering the federal provinces of Tyrol and Vorarlberg is presented in this study. Samples collected from 232 infected calves were phylogenetically classified based on the 5' untranslated region (5'UTR). All but 13 samples, which were typed as border disease virus subtype 3 (BDV-3), belonged to the bovine viral diarrhoea virus genotype 1 (BVDV-1) and clustered within six different subtypes (1b, 1e, 1f, 1h, 1d and 1k). Movement data and survival times from infected individual animals were analysed because of their potential of passing on infection to naive herds. From the moment of submission of the laboratory results, 180 animals were culled within the first month, 13 lived longer than two but not longer than six months and seven infected animals lived longer than one year. 13 of the infected animals were born on alpine pastures and eleven infected animals were grazed on mountain pastures during summer. The movement of infected animals and the role of trade in alpine areas are a possible source for spreading the infection, thus hampering the progress of eradication.


pmid: 18452983
title: Development of a duplex quantitative polymerase chain reaction assay for detection of bovine herpesvirus 1 and bovine viral diarrhea virus in bovine follicular fluid
abstract: The objective of this study was to develop a duplex quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) assay for simultaneous detection of bovine herpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type I and type II. Follicular fluid was collected from a BoHV-1 acutely infected heifer, a BVDV I persistently infected heifer, and from 10 ovaries recovered from an abattoir. Both the BoHV-1 and BVDV contaminated follicular fluid were diluted 1:5 to 1:10(7) using the pooled, abattoir-origin follicular fluid. Each dilution sample was analyzed using the duplex qPCR, virus isolation, reverse transcription-nested PCR (RT-nPCR), and BoHV-1 qPCR. The duplex qPCR was able to simultaneously detect BoHV-1 and BVDV I in the fluid diluted to 1:100 and 1:1000, respectively. These results corresponded with the reverse transcription-nested PCR and BoHV-1 qPCR. Therefore, the duplex qPCR might be used for quality assurance testing to identify these two viruses in cells, fluids and tissues collected from donor animals and used in reproductive technologies.


pmid: 17663013
title: Identification of bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 in yaks (Bos poephagus grunniens) in the Himalayan region
abstract: Since cattle are widely infected by bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in India, we searched for pestivirus infection in yaks. Of 71 pure and crossbred yaks from Himalayan region, pestivirus antigen was detected by Ag-ELISA in three animals. Pestivirus in leukocyte and cell culture isolated virus samples originating from positive yaks was also confirmed by RT-PCR using panpestivirus specific primers selected from 5'-untranslated region (5' UTR). The 5' UTR, N(pro) and E2 regions were sequenced and used for genetic typing. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that pestiviruses detected in three Himalayan yaks were similar genetically, belonging to BVDV-1. Antigenic characterisation of yak pestivirus also confirmed the typing as BVDV-1. This is the first report on the identification of BVDV type 1 in yaks.


pmid: 17361763
title: The control of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in Europe: today and in the future
abstract: This paper summarises the views of a European group of scientists involved in the control of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), as part of a European Union Thematic Network. The group concludes that the technical tools and the knowledge needed to eradicate BVDV are at hand, as proven by successful national control schemes in several European countries. A generic model for BVDV control is presented, which includes biosecurity, elimination of persistently infected animals and surveillance as central elements. These elements are termed 'systematic', in contrast to control efforts without clear goals and surveillance to evaluate progress. The network concludes that a systematic approach is needed to reach a sustainable reduction in the incidence and prevalence of BVDV in Europe. The role of vaccines in systematic control programmes is considered as an additional biosecurity measure, the effect of which should be evaluated against cost, safety and efficacy. It is also concluded that active participation by farmers' organisations is a strong facilitator in the process that leads up to the initiation of control, and that public funding to support the initiation of organised BVD control programmes can be justified on the basis of expected wider societal benefits, such as animal welfare and reduction in the use of antibiotics. If applied successfully, the focus on biosecurity in systematic BVD control programmes would also reduce the risk of the introduction and spread of other epizootic and zoonotic agents, thereby improving both cattle health and welfare in general, as well as increasing the competitiveness of the cattle industry.


pmid: 7989438
title: Survey of cell lines in the American Type Culture Collection for bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Cell lines originating from cattle, sheep, goat, deer, bison, swine, rabbit, hamster, cat, dog, monkey, human, and mosquito were obtained from the American Type Culture Collection and tested for contamination with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Immunocytochemical procedures and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification were used to detect viral antigen or viral RNA in 13 of 41 cell lines. The results of these procedures correlated exactly. Cell lines derived from cattle, sheep, goat, deer, bison, rabbit, and domestic cat were found contaminated with BVDV. Attempts were made to experimentally infect 14 swine, rabbit, hamster, cat, dog, monkey, and human cell lines that had been found free of virus. All swine cell lines, and most rabbit and cat cell lines, became infected with BVDV. Hamster, human, dog, and certain rabbit and cat cells were refractory to BVDV infection. Experimental infection of monkey cells produced variable results.


pmid: 8291236
title: Molecular characterization of border disease virus, a pestivirus from sheep
abstract: Three serologically different pestivirus strains isolated from sheep were selected for molecular analysis. cDNA and deduced amino acid sequences of the genomic regions encoding glycoproteins E1 and E2 were obtained from the three strains. A comparison with amino acid sequences of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and classical swine fever virus (CSFV) revealed that one of the three ovine pestivirus strains can be grouped together with BVDV. The other two strains, however, were clearly different from both BVDV and CSFV. Surprisingly, the amino acid sequences from these two viruses were more similar to CSFV than to BVDV. The identity between so-called "true" BDV strains at the amino acid level is about 95% for E1 and 86% for E2 and thus similar to homologies found between CSFV strains. For one "true" BDV strain the genomic region encompassing the nonstructural protein p125 was also cloned and sequenced. The respective comparative analysis led to results which are similar to the ones obtained for the two structural glycoproteins. Taken together the data demonstrate that "true" border disease virus strains represent a separate group within the genus pestivirus.


pmid: 8219813
title: Serological and antigenical findings indicating pestivirus in man
abstract: An epidemiological survey for pestivirus was undertaken in Zambia and Europe, in view of the recent serological findings obtained by previous studies in Europe with humans. Collected sera were tested for anti-bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) specific antibodies by IIF and Western Blotting. Of those individuals tested (n = 1272), 15.3% showed a seropositive reaction to the BVDV. Anti-BVDV antibody prevalence in immuno-depressed patients (e.g. HIV positive) was investigated. A higher prevalence was revealed in HIV patients suffering from chronic diarrhoea and in those having developed AIDS Related Complex (ARC). Our of 212 persons tested for pestivirus isolation, a non cytopathic virus strain was detected in 2 buffy coat samples using IIF with a specific anti-BVDV serum. The isolation could be repeated three times during 31 days in one person. The virus was identified as a pestivirus with radioimmuno-precipitation assays and IIF-flow cytometry. A doublet of 120 kD was identified only in cell lysates, indicating a non-structural protein. In order to rule out cross reactivity 30 sera from Hepatitis C seropositive patients were tested against the isolate by IIF-flow cytometry. No antigen-specific binding could be observed. These findings indicated the occurrence of a pestivirus in man and might suggest a relationship with a pestivirus of animal origin.


pmid: 1719713
title: Primary bovine viral diarrhoea virus infection in calves following direct contact with a persistently viraemic calf
abstract: Six calves, aged 24 to 58 days and not previously exposed to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), were infected with this agent by nose-to-nose contact with a persistently BVDV viraemic calf. The study was conducted in two trials, using 3 calves in each. All 6 calves showed a peak interferon level in serum at 4 days post infection (dpi), and they seroconverted to BVDV at 16-21 dpi. The calves in trial 1 had diarrhoea for 2 or 3 days between 2 and 6 dpi and one calf again from 9 to 11 dpi. During the periods of fever, the calves were slightly depressed. Those in trial 2 were more depressed and their oral and nasal mucous membranes were reddened but they never had diarrhoea. In both trials, fever (up to 41.3 degrees C) was a prominent symptom at 8 to 9 dpi and 2 calves showed a diphasic fever course. Respiratory affection was mild and no medical treatment was required. Haematological assessment demonstrated a transient but significant leukopenia and lymphopenia at 4 dpi (P less than 0.01 and P less than 0.05 respectively) and 11 dpi (P less than 0.05 and P less than 0.01 respectively). A significant decrease in thrombocyte count was seen at 4 dpi (P less than 0.05, n = 3). This study has demonstrated that nose-to-nose contact is an effective way of transmitting BVDV from persistently infected to susceptible cattle.


pmid: 23994614
title: An ultra-sensitive detection of a whole virus using dual aptamers developed by immobilization-free screening
abstract: In this study, we successfully developed a ssDNA aptamer pairs by using an advanced immobilization-free SELEX method with affinity-based selection and counter-screening process at every round. By implementing this method, two different aptamers specifically binding to bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1(BVDV type 1) with high affinity were successfully screened. This aptamer pair was applied to ultrasensitive detection platform for BVDV type 1 in a sandwich manner. The ultrasensitive detection of BVDV type 1 using one of aptamers conjugated with gold nanoparticles was obtained in aptamer-aptamer sandwich type sensing format, with the limit of detection of 800 copies/ml, which is comparable to a real-time PCR method.


pmid: 21621555
title: Single dilution Avidity-Blocking ELISA as an alternative to the Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus neutralization test
abstract: This study describes the development and validation of a blocking ELISA that measures avidity of BVDV-specific immunoglobulins (Igs) as an alternative to the classic virus neutralization test. The assay comprises a recombinant soluble E2 glycoprotein as target antigen, a neutralizing serum as detector antibody and a washing-step with a chaotropic agent to determine BVDV-specific Igs avidity. Avidity-Blocking ELISA was validated with 100 negative and 87 positive BVDV-neutralization serum samples from either infected or vaccinated bovines (inactivated commercial vaccines). Specificity and sensitivity of the Avidity-Blocking ELISA were 100% and 98.8%, respectively. The assay was standardized to use a single dilution, so that 90 samples can be tested per plate. Results expressed as Avidity Index (AI) correlated with BVDV neutralizing titers (r=0.94). Unlike the virus neutralization test, the Avidity-Blocking ELISA could discriminate between infected and vaccinated animals (DIVA), suggesting that avidity measurement can be a valuable tool to achieve DIVA compliances. The data show that the avidity of anti BVDV antibodies is related to their capacity to block viral infection in vitro.


pmid: 20425730
title: The induction of a cell-mediated immune response to bovine viral diarrhea virus with an adjuvanted inactivated vaccine
abstract: This study evaluated the induction of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) cell-mediated and humoral immune responses after vaccination with an adjuvanted inactivated product. In vaccinated animals, there was an overall treatment effect (P less than .05), for an increased percentage of BVDV-specific CD8 T cells expressing interferon-γ (IFN-γ). The percentages of IFN-γ producing γδ-T cells in the vaccinated group were increased on days 7 (P =.10), 14 (P =.09), and 31 (P = .12). CD4 T cells expressing IFN-γ were increased on day 42 (P = .05). Stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells of the vaccinated group had increased IFN-γ production on days 14 and 35 (P less than .05). Testing for BVDV types 1 and 2 titers began at day 14, with peak titers on days 42 and 35, respectively. In summary, the intracellular accumulation and release of IFN-γ, a T helper cell 1 cytokine, indicates that an adjuvanted inactivated BVDV vaccine is capable of invoking a cell-mediated response while delivering a targeted humoral response.


pmid: 11061962
title: Differences in experimental virulence of bovine viral diarrhoea viral strains isolated from haemorrhagic syndromes
abstract: In the late 1980s, a new hypervirulent and epidemic form of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection appeared in North America. A similar but sporadic syndrome was later reported in Europe. To compare the pathogenic characters of the North American and European hypervirulent strains, we inoculated BVDV naïve calves with BVDV strains isolated from haemorrhagic syndromes originating in Belgium, France and the USA. The experimental procedure comprised daily clinical examination and measurement of blood and virological parameters. The American BVD890/256 strain induced severe thrombocytopaenia, profuse diarrhoea and pneumonia in all calves, indicating that hypervirulent BVDV could be the primary infectious agent of pneumonia. Interestingly, a strong correlation was observed between the intense viraemia and a decreased platelet count. None of the European strains tested induced significant pathological signs, although isolated from cases presenting haemorrhagic syndrome.


pmid: 12827468
title: Cytopathogenicity of pestiviruses: cleavage of bovine viral diarrhea virus NS2-3 has to occur at a defined position to allow viral replication
abstract: Despite of highly divergent genome organizations, the N terminus of nonstructural protein 3 (NS3) is highly conserved between cytopathogenic (cp) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strains. Generation of NS3, often by NS2-3 cleavage, is a marker of cp BVDV. The significance of the cleavage site within NS2-3 for viral replication was addressed by the use of BVDV replicons. Our results demonstrate that elongation as well as truncation of NS3 strongly interfere with viral RNA replication. This finding strongly suggests that the observed conservation of the N terminus of NS3 between cp BVDV is caused by functional selection and not by the presence of a hotspot of recombination.


pmid: 12770537
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus antigenic diversity: impact on disease and vaccination programmes
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infections in cattle are associated with a variety or "diverse" clinical forms. These include digestive tract, respiratory, foetal (varied, dependent on foetal age), haemorrhagic and systemic diseases such as mucosal disease, and immunosuppression and inapparent infections. The BVDV isolates themselves are "diverse" with genotype differences based on nucleotide sequences, antigenic variability and biotypes (presence or absence of cytopathology in cell culture). Two predominant genotypes are present in the US, BVDV1 and BVDV2. There are subtypes of BVDV1, namely BVDV1a and BVDV1b. Examination of BVDV isolates from cattle derived from diagnostic laboratory submissions indicates that BVDV1b subtype isolates were as prevalent if not more prevalent than BVDV1a isolates. There was an almost equal distribution of BVDV1b and BVDV1a isolates from cattle with history of respiratory disease, and more isolates, 6 versus 2, of BVDV1b than for BVDV1a in necropsy cases of pneumonia. There were significant antibody titre differences in sera from calves receiving modified live virus vaccines containing BVDV1a, with the BVDV1b antibody titres being significantly lower. A survey of the US licensed and marketed BVDV vaccines indicates that only one vaccine contains BVDV1b with the others containing BVDV1a or undesignated BVDV1.


pmid: 11244871
title: Antigenic characterization of bovine viral diarrhoea virus isolates from Spain with a panel of monoclonal antibodies
abstract: A group of 47 bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) strains isolated from a variety of bovine tissues from eight different geographical areas of Spain and two BVDV strains isolated from a cell line were characterized antigenically with a panel of 23 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). The mAbs were directed at one of three viral proteins: E2, Erns and NS2-3. A peroxidase-linked assay was used to test the mAbs for reactivity against infected cell monolayers. The data were analysed by two computational methods: the Antigenic Distance Program (MAP) and the Phylogeny Inference Package (PHYLIP), and compared with those obtained previously using the same mAbs with other pestiviruses, including reference strains and UK field isolates. All the Spanish field strains studied appeared to be broadly similar to reference strains of BVDV and were included in the subgroup of classical BVDV, meanwhile the two strains isolated from a cell line were included in the subgroup of atypical pestiviruses.


pmid: 10644844
title: Interactions of bovine viral diarrhoea virus glycoprotein E(rns) with cell surface glycosaminoglycans
abstract: Recombinant E(rns) glycoprotein of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) has been tagged with a marker epitope or linked to an immunoglobulin Fc tail and expressed in insect and mammalian cell lines. The product was shown to be functional, both having ribonuclease activity and binding to a variety of cells that were permissive and non-permissive for replication of BVDV. Addition of soluble E(rns) to the medium blocked replication of BVDV in permissive cells. Binding of epitope-tagged E(rns) to permissive calf testes (CTe) cells was abolished and virus infection was reduced when cells were treated with heparinases I or III. E(rns) failed to bind to mutant Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells that lacked glycosaminoglycans (pgsA-745 cells) or heparan sulphate (pgsD-677 cells) but bound to normal CHO cells. E(rns) also bound to heparin immobilized on agarose and could be eluted by heparin and by a high concentration of salt. Flow cytometric analysis of E(rns) binding to CTe cell cultures showed that glycosaminoglycans such as heparin, fucoidan and dermatan sulphate all inhibit binding but dextran sulphate, keratan sulphate, chondroitin sulphate and mannan fail to inhibit binding. The low molecular mass polysulphonated inhibitor suramin also inhibited binding to CTe cells but poly-L-lysine did not. Furthermore, suramin, the suramin analogue CPD14, fucoidan and pentosan polysulphate inhibited the infectivity of virus. It is proposed that binding of E(rns) to cells is through an interaction with glycosaminoglycans and that BVDV may bind to cells initially through this interaction.


pmid: 26319211
title: Comparison of the breadth and complexity of bovine viral diarrhea (BVDV) populations circulating in 34 persistently infected cattle generated in one outbreak
abstract: Exposure to bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) results in acute and persistent infections. Persistent infections result from in utero exposure during the first trimester of gestation. Clinical presentation, in persistently infected cattle (PI), is highly variable. The reasons for this variation is largely unknown. The BVDV circulating in PI exist as quasispecies (swarms of individual viruses). An outbreak resulting in 34 PI cattle presented an opportunity to compare a large number of PI׳s. Methods were developed to compare the circulating viral populations within PI animals. It was found that PI animals generated in the same outbreak carry circulating viral populations that differ widely in size and diversity. Further, it was demonstrated that variation in PI viral populations could be used as a quantifiable phenotype. This observation makes it possible to test the correlation of this phenotype to other phenotypes such as growth rate, congenital defects, viral shed and cytokine expression.


pmid: 22985628
title: Efficacy of an antiviral compound to inhibit replication of multiple pestivirus species
abstract: Pestiviruses are economically important pathogens of livestock. An aromatic cationic compound (DB772) has previously been shown to inhibit bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type 1 in vitro at concentrations lacking cytotoxic side effects. The aim of this study was to determine the scope of antiviral activity of DB772 among diverse pestiviruses. Isolates of BVDV 2, border disease virus (BDV), HoBi virus, pronghorn virus and Bungowannah virus were tested for in vitro susceptibility to DB772 by incubating infected cells in medium containing 0, 0.006, 0.01, 0.02, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.39, 0.78, 1.56, 3.125, 6.25, 12.5 or 25μM DB772. The samples were assayed for the presence of virus by virus isolation and titration (BDV and BVDV 2) or PCR (HoBi, pronghorn and Bungowannah viruses). Cytotoxicity of the compound was assayed for each cell type. Complete inhibition of BVDV 2, BDV, and Pronghorn virus was detected when DB772 was included in the culture media at concentrations of 0.20μM and higher. In two of three tests, a concentration of 0.05μM DB772 was sufficient to completely inhibit HoBi virus replication. Bungowannah virus was completely inhibited at a concentration of 0.01μM DB772. Thus, DB772 effectively inhibits all pestiviruses studied at concentrations >0.20μM. As cytotoxicity is not evident at these concentrations, this antiviral compound potentially represents an effective preventative or therapeutic for diverse pestiviruses.


pmid: 22883306
title: Immunology of BVDV vaccines
abstract: Providing acquired immune protection against infection with bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) is challenging due to the heterogeneity that exists among BVDV strains and the ability of the virus to infect the fetus and establish persistent infections. Both modified live and killed vaccines have been shown to be efficacious under controlled conditions. Both humoral and cellular immune responses are protective. Following natural infection or vaccination with a modified live vaccine, the majority of the B cell response (as measured by serum antibodies) is directed against the viral proteins E2 and NS2/3, with minor responses against the Erns and E1 proteins. Vaccination with killed vaccines results in serum antibodies directed mainly at the E2 protein. It appears that the major neutralizing epitopes are conformational and are located within the N-terminal half of the E2 protein. While it is thought that the E2 and NS2/3 proteins induce protective T cell responses, these epitopes have not been mapped. Prevention of fetal infections requires T and B cell response levels that approach sterilizing immunity. The heterogeneity that exists among circulating BVDV strains, works against establishing such immunity. Vaccination, while not 100% effective in every individual animal, is effective at the herd level.


pmid: 7597858
title: Effect of formalin fixation and long-term storage on the detectability of bovine viral-diarrhoea-virus (BVDV) RNA in archival brain tissue using polymerase chain reaction
abstract: Detection of DNA or RNA in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) may be hindered by degradation of nucleic acids during tissue collection, preparation and archivation. This study describes investigations on the effect of formalin fixation and prolonged storage of paraffin-embedded tissues on bovine viral-diarrhoea (BVD)-virus RNA as a model system. Brain tissues from eight persistently BVDV-infected calves containing high amounts of the virus were fixed in 5% neutral-buffered formalin or 10% non-buffered formalin for different fixation times, respectively, and paraffin embedded. Subsequent detection of an 803 bp fragment from single tissue sections using nested PCR after reverse transcription (nested RT-PCR) demonstrated a loss of detectability of viral RNA after more than 10 days (10% non-buffered formalin) and 3 months (5% neutral-buffered formalin) of fixation. Additional studies with 280 initially BVDV-positive brain tissues from 25 persistently BVDV-infected calves after storage of up to 10 years revealed a loss of detectable RNA after more than 1 year of storage. For estimation of the higher sensitivity of nested RT-PCR compared to single step RT-PCR, serially diluted BVD virus suspensions were examined using both methods. Nested RT-PCR was found to be about 100-fold more sensitive than single-step RT-PCR, and is therefore recommended as the appropriate technique for archival studies.


pmid: 16213610
title: Experiences from BVDV control in Sweden
abstract: A control scheme on BVDV was launched in Sweden in 1993 with the aim to prevent spread of the infection between herds, to eliminate virus from infected herds and, ultimately, to eradicate BVDV from Sweden. At the start it was voluntary and fully financed by the affiliated farmers. The estimated prevalence of infected herds was 40%. After 11 years there were only 205 (0.9%) herds still under clearance. Measures perceived to be of importance in concluding the scheme are subsidies on costs for analyses, gradually making regulations for contacts between herds and prevention of indirect infection stricter and also to eventually make the scheme compulsory.


pmid: 9871955
title: Prolonged nasal shedding and viraemia of cytopathogenic bovine virus diarrhoea virus in experimental late-onset mucosal disease
abstract: A calf persistently infected with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was super-infected with a heterologous BVDV strain, C874, which contained non-cytopathogenic and cytopathogenic viruses. High titres of cytopathogenic BVDV were recovered in the three to four weeks after the challenge. Thereafter low titres of cytopathogenic virus were recovered repeatedly from the blood and the nose, with the titres in nasal secretions increasing in the four weeks before the onset of clinical signs. Neutralising antibodies against the challenge cytopathic virus (C874cp) were first detected 21 days after the super-infection, but these antibodies failed to neutralise the persisting non-cytopathogenic and cytopathogenic viruses isolated from the animal during the course of the infection. Serum collected from 105 days after the super-infection neutralised the cytopathogenic viruses isolated on day 105 and postmortem. These data indicate that unaltered wild-type C874cp was not directly responsible for the late-onset mucosal disease.


pmid: 2162729
title: Detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus genome in leukocytes from persistently infected cattle by RNA-cDNA hybridization
abstract: A bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) cDNA library was constructed. One cloned complementary DNA sequence was used as a probe to detect BVDV RNA by hybridization in infected cell cultures and in mononuclear leukocytes from persistently infected cattle by dot blot and in situ hybridization. The cDNA probe hybridized with all cytopathic and noncytopathic BVDV isolates tested. The hybridization results were consistent with results obtained using conventional subculturing and immunofluorescent staining methods and by inoculation of seronegative test cattle.


pmid: 1966728
title: Immunological responses to bovine virus diarrhoea virus infections
abstract: Infection of normal calves with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is a transient self-limiting infection that can result in a period of immunosuppression. The virus appears to be able to replicate in all of the major lymphocyte sub-populations as well as in accessory cells. This may result in the leukopenia that is often a sequel of infection and affects B-cells as well as the T-cell sub-populations expressing either BoCD4 or BoCD8 antigens. B and T-cell responses are affected as a consequence of exposure to BVDV and there is a reduced ability to control other infections. Evidence is summarised and shows that immunoglobulin is an important mediator of immunity to infection with BVDV. Although the foetus can mount an immune response in the latter part of gestation, during the first trimester it does not. A specific state of tolerance is induced and this is associated with change in the proportion of certain lymphocyte sub-populations and ability to respond to immune stimulation.


pmid: 18725468
title: Systemic reactive angioendotheliomatosis-like syndrome in a steer presumed to be persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Unusual proliferative intravascular lesions were seen in multiple organs of a 2-year-old Corriente steer presumed to be persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), based on widespread immunohistochemical detection of BVDV antigen. Proliferations of spindle cells, which were immunohistochemically positive for von Willebrand factor-related antigen, partially-to-completely occluded vessel lumens and were supported by cells that were immunohistochemically positive for smooth muscle actin. Distribution and character of the intraluminal proliferations are strikingly similar to those described in feline systemic reactive angioendotheliomatosis, a rare entity of unknown cause. The presence of occasional intravascular thrombi suggests that the proliferative vasculopathy was associated with an underlying thrombotic process with immunohistochemical similarities to thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura of humans. Death of the steer was due to hemorrhage from a castration wound, which may indicate thrombocytopenia or platelet dysfunction. The role of persistent BVDV infection in the formation of the intravascular lesions is unknown.


pmid: 2545029
title: Hog cholera virus--characterization of specific antiserum and identification of cDNA clones
abstract: A specific antiserum was raised against the pestivirus inducing hog cholera (hog cholera virus, HCV). Using immunoprecipitation and SDS-PAGE, this antiserum served for comparison of HCV-induced proteins with those from a related and better characterized pestivirus, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). In addition to immunological relationships, the apparent molecular weights of some proteins induced by both viruses were quite similar. HCV genomic RNA was found to be about 12 kb in length, comparable to BVDV RNA. cDNA was synthesized starting from RNA isolated from partially purified virions and cloned in lambda gt11. Screening with the antiserum resulted in identification of several positive clones. Partial sequencing of one HCV-derived cDNA clone revealed a high degree of homology to a portion of the BVDV sequence.


pmid: 2558836
title: Detergent solubilised bovine viral diarrhea virus elicits a similar immune response as the inactivated virus
abstract: The immune response to two detergent solubilised preparations of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) proteins were compared with the response to a chemically inactivated BVDV preparation. The antibody titres were measured with the standard immunofluorescence assay and with a newly developed enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The range of viral protein specificity of the antibodies was compared using SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) followed by Western blot analysis. The results clearly demonstrate that the detergent solubilised viral proteins are equally as effective immunogens as the killed BVDV vaccine both in terms of antibody titers and specificity.


pmid: 15893892
title: Serological status for N. caninum, bovine viral diarrhea virus, and infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus at pregnancy testing and reproductive performance in beef herds
abstract: Neospora caninum, infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR), and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) are important differentials for the diagnosis of infectious reproductive loss in beef herds. The objective of this study was to describe the serological status of both pregnant and non-pregnant beef cows from herds with varying levels of reproductive success. The study provided an opportunity to examine whether there were any associations between serological status for BVDV, IBR, and N. caninum and pregnancy status, as well as the subsequent risk of abortion, or stillbirth. Samples were collected from 2516 cows and heifers from 66 herds; 31 herds where the proportion pregnant was <90% and 35 randomly selected herds where the proportion pregnant was > or =90%. Of these samples 5.9% were positive for antibodies to N. caninum, 20.4% had titres >1:80 to IBR, 91.8% had titres > or =1:256 to BVDV type 1, and 23.9% had titres > or =1:256 to BVDV type 2. N. caninum antibody concentration was associated with an increased individual animal risk of non-pregnancy (OR(logS/P), 1.9; 95% CI, 1.2-2.9) and abortion (OR(pos/neg), 2.8; 95% CI, 1.1-7.5). The proportion of animals at pregnancy testing with antibodies to BVDV type 2 above 1:3000 (OR(10%changeinprevalence), 2.3; 95% CI, 1.5-3.5) was also associated with an increased risk of abortion. No other measures of antibody status were associated with reduced reproductive performance in this group of herds. Antibodies to Mycobacterium avium spp.paratuberculosis were also measured; 0.7% of samples were positive (sample to positive (S/P) >0.25) and 3.6% were suspicious (S/P, 0.10-0.25).


pmid: 18390097
title: The effect of bovine viral diarrhea virus infections on health and performance of feedlot cattle
abstract: The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections (unapparent acute infections and persistent infections) on the overall health and performance of feedlot cattle. Calves from 25 pens (7132 calves) were enrolled in the study. Overall and infectious disease mortality rates were significantly higher (P < 0.05) in pens categorized at arrival as positive for type I BVDV and lower in pens that were positive for type II BVDV than in negative pens. Mortality attributed to BVDV infection or enteritis was significantly more common (P < 0.05) in the pens containing persistently infected (PI) calves than in pens not containing PI calves (non-PI pens). There were no statistically detectable (P > or = 0.05) differences in morbidity, overall mortality, average daily gain, or the dry matter intake to gain ratio between PI and non-PI pens. Although type-I BVDV infections in feedlots appear to contribute to higher mortality rates, the presence of PI calves alone does not appear to have a strong impact on pen-level animal health and feedlot performance.


pmid: 33237499
title: Frequency of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in Argentinean bovine herds and comparison of diagnostic tests for BVDV detection in bovine serum samples: a preliminary study
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) is a major worldwide disease with negative economic impact on cattle production. Successful control programs of BVD require the identification and culling of persistently infected (PI) animals with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). A variety of diagnostic tests are available to detect BVDV, but no comparison has been performed among those tests in Argentina. Sera collected from 2864 cattle, belonging to 55 herds from three Argentinean provinces, were analyzed by nested RT-PCR (RT-nPCR) to detect BVDV for diagnostic purposes. Additionally, this study evaluated the agreement of the RT-nPCR along with virus isolation, antigen-capture ELISA, and real-time RT-PCR for BVDV detection in archived bovine serum samples (n = 90). The RT-nPCR was useful for BVDV detection in pooled and individual serum samples. BVDV was detected in 1% (29/2864) of the cattle and in 20% (11/55) of the herds. The proportion of BVDV-positive sera was not statistically different among the tests. In addition, comparisons showed high agreement levels, with the highest values between both RT-PCR protocols. The frequency of BVDV infection at individual and herd level was lower than the reported values worldwide. Since follow-up testing was not performed, the frequency of PI cattle was unknown. Also, this study demonstrated that the four diagnostic tests can be used reliably for BVDV identification in individual serum samples. Further epidemiologically designed studies that address prevalence, risk factors, and economic impact of BVDV in Argentina will be necessary to implement effective control programs.


pmid: 27898956
title: Effect of timing of challenge following short-term natural exposure to bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1b on animal performance and immune response in beef steers
abstract: Bovine respiratory disease (BRD) is the most common and economically detrimental disease of beef cattle during the postweaning period, causing the majority of morbidity and mortality in feedlots. The pathogenesis of this disease often includes an initial viral infection, which can predispose cattle to a secondary bacterial infection. The objective of this experiment was to determine the effects of timing of an intratracheal (MH) challenge relative to 72 h of natural exposure to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type 1b persistently infected (PI) calves on performance, serum antibody production, total and differential white blood cell (WBC) count, rectal temperature, clinical severity score (CS), and haptoglobin (Hp). Steers ( = 24; 276 ± 31 kg initial BW) were randomly allocated to 1 of 3 treatments (8 steers/treatment) in a randomized complete block design. Treatments were steers not exposed to calves PI with BVDV 1b and not challenged with MH (CON), steers intratracheally challenged with MH 84 h after being exposed to calves PI with BVDV 1b for 72 h (LateCh), and steers intratracheally challenged with MH 12 h after being exposed to calves PI with BVDV 1b for 72 h (EarlyCh). Performance (ADG, DMI, and G:F) was decreased ( < 0.001) for both EarlyCh and LateCh from d 0 to 4. From d 5 to 17, LateCh appeared to compensate for this lost performance and demonstrated increased ADG ( = 0.01) and G:F ( = 0.01) compared with EarlyCh. Both EarlyCh and LateCh had decreased platelet counts ( < 0.001) compared with CON. Antibody concentrations of BVDV and MH were higher ( < 0.05) for both EarlyCh and LateCh compared with CON. Rectal temperature, CS, and Hp increased ( < 0.001) across time from h 4 to 48, h 4 to 36, and h 8 to 168, respectively. Within 24 h of MH challenge, WBC and neutrophil concentrations within the blood increased whereas lymphocyte concentrations decreased. The timing of BVDV exposure relative to a MH challenge appears to influence the CS and acute phase response associated with BRD. As typical beef cattle marketing channels allow for variation in the timing of respiratory pathogen exposure, understanding the physiological changes in morbid cattle will lead to improved management of BRD.


pmid: 27420479
title: Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Type 2 Impairs Macrophage Responsiveness to Toll-Like Receptor Ligation with the Exception of Toll-Like Receptor 7
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a member of the Flaviviridae family. BVDV isolates are classified into two biotypes based on the development of cytopathic (cp) or non-cytopathic (ncp) effects in epithelial cell culture. BVDV isolates are further separated into species, BVDV1 and 2, based on genetic differences. Symptoms of BVDV infection range from subclinical to severe, depending on strain virulence, and may involve multiple organ systems and induction of a generalized immunosuppression. During BVDV-induced immune suppression, macrophages, critical to innate immunity, may have altered pathogen recognition receptor (PRR) signaling, including signaling through toll-like receptors (TLRs). Comparison of BVDV 2 strains with different biotypes and virulence levels is valuable to determining if there are differences in host macrophage cellular responses between viral phenotypes. The current study demonstrates that cytopathic (cp), noncytopathic (ncp), high (hv) or low virulence (lv) BVDV2 infection of bovine monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMΦ) result in differential expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines compared to uninfected MDMΦ. A hallmark of cp BVDV2 infection is IL-6 production. In response to TLR2 or 4 ligation, as might be observed during secondary bacterial infection, cytokine secretion was markedly decreased in BVDV2-infected MDMΦ, compared to non-infected MDMΦ. Macrophages were hyporesponsive to viral TLR3 or TLR8 ligation. However, TLR7 stimulation of BVDV2-infected MDMΦ induced cytokine secretion, unlike results observed for other TLRs. Together, these data suggest that BVDV2 infection modulated mRNA responses and induced a suppression of proinflammatory cytokine protein responses to TLR ligation in MDMΦ with the exception of TLR7 ligation. It is likely that there are distinct differences in TLR pathways modulated following BVDV2 infection, which have implications for macrophage responses to secondary infections.


pmid: 26050571
title: Impact of species and subgenotypes of bovine viral diarrhea virus on control by vaccination
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) are diverse genetically and antigenically. This diversity impacts both diagnostic testing and vaccination. In North America, there are two BVDV species, 1 and 2 with 3 subgenotypes, BVDV1a, BVDV1b and BVDV2a. Initially, US vaccines contained BVDV1a cytopathic strains. With the reporting of BVDV2 severe disease in Canada and the USA there was focus on protection by BVDV1a vaccines on BVDV2 disease. There was also emphasis of controlling persistently infected (PI) cattle resulted in studies for fetal protection afforded by BVDV1a vaccines. Initially, studies indicated that some BVDV1a vaccines gave less than 100% protection against BVDV2 challenge for fetal infection. Eventually vaccines in North America added BVDV2a to modified live virus (MLV) and killed BVDV1a vaccines. Ideally, vaccines should stimulate complete immunity providing 100% protection against disease, viremias, shedding, and 100% fetal protection in vaccinates when challenged with a range of diverse antigenic viruses (subgenotypes). There should be a long duration of immunity stimulated by vaccines, especially for fetal protection. MLV vaccines should be safe when given according to the label and free of other pathogens. While vaccines have now included BVDV1a and BVDV2a, with the discovery of the predominate subgenotype of BVDV in the USA to be BVDV1b, approximately 75% or greater in prevalence, protection in acute challenge and fetal protection studies became more apparent for BVDV1b. Thus many published studies examined protection by BVDV1a and BVDV2a vaccines against BVDV1b in acute challenge and fetal protection studies. There are no current BVDV1b vaccines in the USA. There are now more regulations on BVDV reproductive effects by the USDA Center for Veterinary Biologics (CVB) regarding label claims for protection against abortion, PI calves, and fetal infections, including expectations for studies regarding those claims. Also, the USDA CVB has a memorandum providing the guidance for exemption of the warning label statement against the use of the MLV BVDV in pregnant cows and calves nursing pregnant cows. In reviews of published studies in the USA, the results of acute challenge and fetal protection studies are described, including subgenotypes in vaccines and challenge strains and the results in vaccinates and the vaccinates' fetuses/newborns. In general, vaccines provide protection against heterologous strains, ranging from 100% to partial but statistically significant protection. In recent studies, the duration of immunity afforded by vaccines was investigated and reported. Issues of contamination remain, especially since fetal bovine serums may be contaminated with noncytopathic BVDV. In addition, the potential for immunosuppression by MLV vaccines exists, and new vaccines will be assessed in the future to prove those MLV components are not immunosuppressive by experimental studies. As new subgenotypes are found, the efficacy of the current vaccines should be evaluated for these new strains.


pmid: 23291101
title: Efficacy of a BVDV subunit vaccine produced in alfalfa transgenic plants
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is considered an important cause of economic loss within bovine herds worldwide. In Argentina, only the use of inactivated vaccines is allowed, however, the efficacy of inactivated BVDV vaccines is variable due to its low immunogenicity. The use of recombinant subunit vaccines has been proposed as an alternative to overcome this difficulty. Different studies on protection against BVDV infection have focused the E2 protein, supporting its putative use in subunit vaccines. Utilization of transgenic plants expressing recombinant antigens for the formulation of experimental vaccines represents an innovative and cost effective alternative to the classical fermentation systems. The aim of this work was to develop transgenic alfalfa plants (Medicago sativa, L.) expressing a truncated version of the structural protein E2 from BVDV fused to a molecule named APCH, that target to antigen presenting cells (APCH-tE2). The concentration of recombinant APCH-tE2 in alfalfa leaves was 1 μg/g at fresh weight and its expression remained stable after vegetative propagation. A methodology based an aqueous two phases system was standardized for concentration and partial purification of APCH-tE2 from alfalfa. Guinea pigs parentally immunized with leaf extracts developed high titers of neutralizing antibodies. In bovine, the APCH-tE2 subunit vaccine was able to induce BVDV-specific neutralizing antibodies. After challenge, bovines inoculated with 3 μg of APCH-tE2 produced in alfalfa transgenic plants showed complete virological protection.


pmid: 10735128
title: Quantity and infectivity of embryo-associated bovine viral diarrhea virus and antiviral influence of a blastocyst impede in vitro infection of uterine tubal cells
abstract: In previous studies, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) remained associated with IVF embryos after viral exposure and washing. However, uterine tubal cells (UTC) were not infected when exposed embryos were washed and individually co-cultured with them. The objective of this study was to evaluate quantity and infectivity of embryo-associated virus and antiviral influence of a blastocyst as possible explanations for failure to infect the UTC in vitro. Morulae and blastocysts were produced in vitro and washed. A portion of the embryos were incubated for 2 h in medium containing 10(6) to 10(8) cell culture infective doses (50%, CCID50) of a genotype I, noncytopathic BVDV per milliliter and then washed again. Virus isolation was attempted on sonicated negative (virus unexposed) and positive (virus exposed) control embryo groups after washing. The influence of quantity and infectivity of embryo-associated virus was evaluated by transferring exposed, washed embryo groups (2, 5, and 10 embryos/group) or sonicate fluid of exposed, washed, sonicated embryo groups (2, 5, and 10 embryos/group) to cultures containing bovine UTC in IVC medium that was free of BVDV neutralizing activity. The antiviral influence of an embryo was evaluated by adding 1 to 10(5) CCID50 of BVDV to UTC in the presence or absence of a single unexposed blastocyst in IVC medium. After 2 d in co-culture, the UTC, IVC medium and washed embryos (when present) were tested separately for the presence of BVDV using virus isolation. Virus was isolated from sonicate fluids of all positive but no negative controls. Virus was not isolated from any UTC following 2 d of culture with virally exposed groups of intact embryos. However, virus was isolated from UTC cultured with sonicate fluids from some groups of 5 (60%) and 10 (40%) embryos. Infective virus also remained associated with some groups of 2 (20%), 5 (40%) and 10 (60%) intact embryos after 48 h of post-exposure culture. Finally, primary cultures of UTC were more susceptible to infection with BVDV in the absence of a blastocyst (P = 0.01). Results indicate that insufficient quantity and reduced infectivity of embryo-associated virus as well as an antiviral influence of intact IVF blastocysts may all contribute to failure of embryo-associated virus to infect UTC in vitro.


pmid: 15381362
title: Establishment of a new bovine leukosis virus producing cell line
abstract: Due to the prevalence of different bovine leukosis virus (BLV) species in the cattle population in Europe, problems may arise in the serological diagnosis of BLV infections. In addition, earlier investigations demonstrated that contamination of the BLV antigen-producing cell culture systems by bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) may give rise to misinterpretation of serological test results after BVDV vaccination of cattle. By co-cultivation of peripheral leukocytes of a BLV-infected cow with a permanent sheep kidney cell line, a new BLV-producing cell line named PO714 was established. This line carries a BLV provirus of the Belgian species and has been tested to be free of a variety of possibly contaminating viruses and mycoplasms. Investigations of a panel of well-characterised sera by agar gel immunodiffusion (AGID) and capture ELISA (cELISA) tests using antigen prepared from this new cell line in comparison with antigen of the well-known cell line FLK/BLV yielded comparable results. False positive results caused by BVDV cross-reactions could be eliminated when tests were carried out with antigen derived from the new cell line.


pmid: 6329046
title: Morphology of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The morphology of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was studied by electron microscopy. The NADL strain of BVDV was plaque purified 3 times, concentrated by polyethylene glycol precipitation, and purified by centrifugation to equilibrium in continuous potassium tartrate density-gradients. The virus was examined by negative-stain electron microscopy in the presence or absence of specific antiserum. The density of BVDV was between 1.101 g/cm3 and 1.174 g/cm3, with the peak at maximum infectivity at 1.122 g/cm3. Oval to pleomorphic viral particles, 120 ( +/- 30) nm in diameter, were enriched in the peak of maximum infectivity. The detailed structure of virions was revealed: a 5- to 7-microns thick unit membrane-like envelope layer with numerous projecting knobs, 4 to 5 nm in diameter, surrounding an interior core-like structure. Viral particles measuring 120 ( +/- 30) nm were found in large aggregates in the presence of specific antiserum.


pmid: 27834720
title: Genome Sequence of a Subgenotype 1a Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus in China
abstract: A bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), GS5, of the BVDV-1a subgenotype was isolated from dairy cattle in Gansu Province, northwest China. Its near-full-length genome was determined to be closely related to an early Belgian BVDV-1a strain, WAX-N, but the relatedness to domestic strains is relatively low, indicating that different genetic evolution occurred between the viral strains in cattle in China.


pmid: 18190971
title: Humoral and T cell-mediated immune responses to bivalent killed bovine viral diarrhea virus vaccine in beef cattle
abstract: The objective of this research project was to evaluate the antibody and cell-mediated immune responses to a multivalent vaccine containing killed bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) types 1 and 2. Twenty castrated male crossbred beef cattle (350-420kg body weight) seronegative to BVDV were randomly divided into two groups of 10 each. Group 1 served as negative mock-vaccinated control. Group 2 was vaccinated subcutaneously twice, 3 weeks apart, with modified live bovine herpesvirus 1, parainfluenza 3 virus and bovine respiratory syncytial virus diluted in diluent containing killed BVDV type 1 (strain 5960) and type 2 (strain 53637) in an adjuvant containing Quil A, Amphigen, and cholesterol. Serum samples were collected from all cattle at days -21, 0, and days 21, 28, 35, 56 and 70 post-vaccination. Standard serum virus neutralization tests were performed with BVDV type 1 (strain 5960) and type 2 (strain 125C). Anticoagulated blood samples were collected at day 0, and days 28, 35, 56 and 70 post-vaccination. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated, stimulated with live BVDV type 1 (strain TGAN) and type 2 (strain 890) and cultured in vitro for 4 days. Supernatants of cultured cells were collected and saved for interferon gamma (IFNgamma) indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Four-color flow cytometry was performed to stain and identify cultured PBMC for three T cell surface markers (CD4, CD8, and gammadelta TCR) and to detect the activation marker CD25 (alpha chain of IL-2 receptor) expression. The net increase in %CD25+ cells (Delta%CD25+) of each T cell subset of individual cattle was calculated. The results of all post-vaccination weeks of each animal were plotted and the areas under the curve of each T cell subset were statistically analyzed and compared between groups. The mean area under the curve of the Delta%CD25+ data for days 0-70 of all subsets, except CD4-CD8+gammadelta TCR- (cytotoxic) T cell subset of both BVDV types 1 and 2 stimulated cells, of the vaccinated group were significantly higher than the control group (P<0.05). IFNgamma production by PBMC from the vaccinated group showed significantly higher results (P<0.05) than the control group in the BVDV types 1 and 2 stimulated cells for at least some time points after vaccination. The vaccinated group also had significantly (P<0.0001) higher neutralizing antibody titers than the control group from day 28 onward.


pmid: 25454860
title: The bovine viral diarrhea virus E2 protein formulated with a novel adjuvant induces strong, balanced immune responses and provides protection from viral challenge in cattle
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is still one of the most serious pathogens in cattle, meriting the development of improved vaccines. Recently, we developed a new adjuvant consisting of poly[di(sodium carboxylatoethylphenoxy)]-phosphazene (PCEP), either CpG ODN or poly(I:C), and an immune defense regulator (IDR) peptide. As this adjuvant has been shown to mediate the induction of robust, balanced immune responses, it was evaluated in an E2 subunit vaccine against BVDV in lambs and calves. The BVDV type 2 E2 protein was produced at high levels in a mammalian expression system and purified. When formulated with either CpG ODN or poly(I:C), together with IDR and PCEP, the E2 protein elicited high antibody titers and production of IFN-γ secreting cells in lambs. As the immune responses were stronger when poly(I:C) was used, the E2 protein with poly(I:C), IDR and PCEP was subsequently tested in cattle. Robust virus neutralizing antibodies as well as cell-mediated immune responses, including CD8(+) cytotoxic T cell (CTL) responses, were induced. The fact that CTL responses were demonstrated in calves vaccinated with an E2 protein subunit vaccine indicates that this adjuvant formulation promotes cross-presentation. Furthermore, upon challenge with a high dose of virulent BVDV-2, the vaccinated calves showed almost no temperature response, weight loss, leukopenia or virus replication, in contrast to the control animals, which had severe clinical disease. These data suggest that this E2 subunit formulation induces significant protection from BVDV-2 challenge, and thus is a promising BVDV vaccine candidate; in addition, the adjuvant platform has applications in bovine vaccines in general.


pmid: 17121092
title: A survey of bovine viral diarrhea virus testing in diagnostic laboratories in the United States from 2004 to 2005
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has a great economic impact on the United States cattle industry. The Academy of Veterinary Consultants, the American Association of Bovine Practitioners, and the National Cattlemen's Beef Association have called for the goal of BVDV control and eventual eradication in the U.S.A. One of the key factors in such efforts will be the detection of BVDV infections, particularly targeting persistently infected animals. To assess current BVDV detection methods in the U.S.A., 26 veterinary diagnostic laboratories in 23 states were surveyed. Survey questions related to the types of tests currently offered, the number of tests performed, the reasons for test requests, the type of samples used, whether sample pooling was performed, and whether follow-up testing or information regarding bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) management was provided after positive tests. There was no clear consensus on an individual BVDV testing method, the pooling of samples or the retesting of positive animals. Ear-notch antigen capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ACE) was the test most frequently performed based on the absolute number of tests. However, when the data were adjusted to reflect individual laboratory choices, the number of ACE and immunohistochemistry tests performed on ear notches was nearly equal. Only 55% of diagnostic laboratories provided BVD management information to producers or veterinarians who submitted positive samples. There was no significant difference in the number of positive tests in laboratories that received the majority of their samples for screening purposes versus laboratories that received the majority of their samples because BVDV was suspected based on clinical signs in a herd.


pmid: 2552645
title: Characterization of porcine and some ruminant pestiviruses by cross-neutralization
abstract: Serologic relationships between 11 pestivirus strains that originated from pigs and five that originated from cattle or sheep were studied by cross-neutralization. Experiments were performed with pig and sheep sera raised against the strains. The results were analysed by a computerized taxonomic procedure. The 16 viruses were classified into four distinct serologic groups. All hog cholera virus (HCV) strains were classified in one group; the other three groups consisted of strains that can infect pigs, but that are identified as bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) or border disease virus (BDV), or showed a closer relationship to BVDV and BDV than to HCV.


pmid: 24447942
title: Characterisation of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) isolates from an outbreak with haemorrhagic enteritis and severe pneumonia
abstract: During 2007 a disease outbreak occurred in cattle in the Marmara region of western Turkey characterised by severe pneumonia and haemorrhagic enteritis in calves. Cases from three farms at different locations were examined and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) isolated in all cases. Phylogenetic characterisation of the virus isolates allocated them in a new cluster tentatively named as BVDV-1r.


pmid: 19406434
title: Morphological changes and virus distribution in the ileum of colostrum-deprived calves inoculated with non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhoea virus genotype-1
abstract: Eight colostrum-deprived calves were inoculated intranasally with a non-cytopathic strain of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) genotype-1 and killed in batches of two at 3, 6, 9 and 14 days post-inoculation (dpi). Two non-inoculated animals with similar background served as controls. All infected calves developed mild pyrexia and transient leucopenia due primarily to lymphopenia. Viraemia was correlated with body temperature and inversely related to leucocyte count. Ileal Peyer's patches developed mild follicular lymphoid depletion from 3dpi. This change was accompanied by cellular fragmentation and pyknosis, characteristic of apoptosis, which was most prominent from 6dpi. Lymphocyte apoptosis was confirmed by ultrastructural examination. Stellate cells and macrophages located in the lymphoid follicles were identified as infected by virus from 3dpi and the number of these infected cells increased until 9dpi. Fewer lymphocytes expressed BVDV antigen. Macrophages had morphological features consistent with activation of secretory and phagocytic function from 3dpi. These findings suggest that BVDV is only directly responsible for the destruction of a small number of lymphocytes. Although lymphocyte infection coincided with the onset of apoptosis, the intensity of infection was disproportionate to the marked depletion of gut-associated lymphoid tissue, particularly during the early stages of this process. Characterization of the indirect pathogenic mechanisms involved in the lymphoid depletion associated with BVDV infection will require additional study.


pmid: 12485360
title: Pestivirus in cattle: experimentally induced persistent infection in calves
abstract: Twenty-two heifers were infected intranasally with non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) between days 74 and 82 of pregnancy. All animals had developed serum antibodies against BVDV 5 weeks later. No clinical effects were seen in the heifers, and they all delivered a live calf. The newborn calves were generally small, appeared unthrifty as typical 'poor doers', and some developed secondary infections with diarrhoea and signs of respiratory disease. Eighteen of the 22 calves were born without antibodies against BVDV and were persistently infected (PI) with the virus. One was weak at birth and died the following day. Four calves were born with serum antibodies against BVDV and with no detectable virus. Three of these showed signs and/or pathological changes indicating disease in the central nervous system. Otherwise, there were no obvious clinical differences between these calves and the PI calves, nor were there any apparent significant differences in blood parameters between these groups. In general, the calves showed low gamma-globulin values and thrombocytopaenia, but moderately increased fibrinogen values and relatively normal lymphocyte numbers.


pmid: 8993782
title: Performance, survival, necropsy, and virological findings from calves persistently infected with the bovine viral diarrhea virus originating from a single Saskatchewan beef herd
abstract: Fifty-one calves from 652 cows and heifers that calved on a Saskatchewan ranch in 1992 were identified as persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), based on virological and necropsy findings. Herd records suggested a further 20 calves that died between birth and weaning were probably also persistently infected. Subsequent to weaning, all surviving persistently infected calves were transferred to one pen in a 10,000 head commercial feedlot, to mimic normal management practice in western Canadian beef herds. On average, when compared with healthy, BVDV-negative herdmates, persistently infected calves were "poor doers" and had poor survivability, with only 4 persistently infected calves surviving to 1 year of age. There was no difference (P > 0.05) in survival between male and female persistently infected calves. The clinical, pathological, and virological findings from these persistently infected calves varied over time. The majority of persistently infected calves had gross pathological lesions at necropsy, consistent with mucosal disease. However, approximately 25% of the persistently infected calves had gross pneumonic lesions at necropsy, with no or only mild lesions of mucosal disease. A wide variety of other lesions were also noted in persistently infected calves at necropsy. Therefore, the possibility that BVDV-induced lesions can be misdiagnosed is very real. The results of this study indicate that persistent infection with BVDV should always be considered in calves with chronic ill thrift, chronic enteritis, or respiratory disease.


pmid: 23276751
title: Mapping B-cell linear epitopes of NS3 protein of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a member of the genus Pestivirus within the family Flaviviridae. NS3 is one of the immunodominance regions of the BVDV viral proteins. To identify the potential B-cell linear antigenic epitopes within BVDV NS3 region, serial overlapping truncations covering the whole region were expressed and purified, and screened by multistep of Western-blot. We found ((1)VCKKITEHERCHVNI(15)), ((20)AFFGVMPRGTTPRAPVR(36)), ((46)RRGLETGWAYTHQGGI(61)), ((281)EGDMATGITYASYGYFC(297)), ((426)YSGEDPANLRVVTSQSPYVVVATNAIESGV(455)) and ((481)FIVTGLKRMAVTVGEQA(497)) can be recognized by the BVDV infected bovine serum. These proteins have been confirmed by indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (I-ELISA). The results of this study might open new perspectives on the structure and antibody-antigen reaction of the non-structural proteins and may aid in the clinical application as well.


pmid: 22890128
title: Host response to bovine viral diarrhea virus and interactions with infectious agents in the feedlot and breeding herd
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) have significant impact on beef and dairy production worldwide. The infections are widespread in the cattle populations, and in many production systems, vaccinations are utilized. BVDV strains have the hallmark of adversely affecting the immune system's many components, both the innate and acquired systems. While BVDV do cause primary infections and disease, their role in the pathogenesis of other agents underscores the complexity of viral-bacterial synergy. A greater understanding of the role of the persistently infected (PI) animal resulting from susceptible females infected at a critical stage of pregnancy has permitted acknowledgment of a major source of infection to susceptible animals. Not only do we understand the role of the PI in transmitting infections and complicating other infections, but we now focus attempts to better diagnose and remove the PI animal. Vaccinations now address the need to have an immune population, especially the breeding females in the herd. Biosecurity, detection and removal of the PI, and effective vaccinations are tools for potential successful BVDV control.


pmid: 24053990
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea: pathogenesis and diagnosis
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is the most prevalent infectious disease of cattle. It causes financial losses from a variety of clinical manifestations and is the subject of a number of mitigation and eradication schemes around the world. The pathogenesis of BVDV infection is complex, with infection pre- and post-gestation leading to different outcomes. Infection of the dam during gestation results in fetal infection, which may lead to embryonic death, teratogenic effects or the birth of persistently infected (PI) calves. PI animals shed BVDV in their excretions and secretions throughout life and are the primary route of transmission of the virus. These animals can usually be readily detected by virus or viral antigen detection assays (RT-PCR, ELISA), except in the immediate post-natal period where colostral antibodies may mask virus presence. PI calves in utero (the 'Trojan cow' scenario) currently defy detection with available diagnostic tests, although dams carrying PI calves have been shown to have higher antibody levels than seropositive cows carrying non-PI calves. Acute infection with BVDV results in transient viraemia prior to seroconversion and can lead to reproductive dysfunction and immunosuppression leading to an increased incidence of secondary disease. Antibody assays readily detect virus exposure at the individual level and can also be used in pooled samples (serum and milk) to determine herd exposure or immunity. Diagnostic tests can be used to diagnose clinical cases, establish disease prevalence in groups and detect apparently normal but persistently infected animals. This review outlines the pathogenesis and pathology of BVD viral infection and uses this knowledge to select the best diagnostic tests for clinical diagnosis, monitoring, control and eradication efforts. Test methods, types of samples and problems areas of BVDV diagnosis are discussed.


pmid: 12033761
title: Inhibition of host ER glucosidase activity prevents Golgi processing of virion-associated bovine viral diarrhea virus E2 glycoproteins and reduces infectivity of secreted virions
abstract: Recently, it was shown that replication of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is sensitive to inhibitors of host ER glucosidases. Consistent with these findings, we report that incubation of BVDV-infected MDBK cells with the glucosidase inhibitor n-butyl-deoxynojirimycin (nB-DNJ) reduced BVDV yields by 70- to 100-fold (n = 27), while having no effect on MDBK cell viability. However, the 70- to 100-fold reduction in infectious virus was associated with only a 2-fold reduction in genomic RNA synthesis and secretion of enveloped virus particles. Analysis of secreted virions showed that in the absence of glucosidase inhibitor, approximately 50% of the virion-associated BVDV E2 glycoprotein was resistant to endoglycosidase H (endo H) digestion, whereas intracellular E2 was completely sensitive to endo H digestion. In the presence of glucosidase inhibitor, virion-associated E2 and intracellular E2 were completely sensitive to endo H digestion. Taken together, these results suggest that BVDV is secreted through a Golgi-mediated pathway and that host ER glucosidase activity is required for production of infectious virions and Golgi processing of envelope E2 protein during virus egress.


pmid: 20444997
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus non-structural protein 5A interacts with NIK- and IKKbeta-binding protein
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a positive-sense, single-stranded RNA virus that causes an economically important livestock disease worldwide. Previous studies have suggested that non-structural protein 5A (NS5A) from hepatitis C virus (HCV) and BVDV plays a similar role during virus infection. Extensive reports are available on HCV NS5A and its interactions with the host cellular proteins; however, the role of NS5A during BVDV infection remains largely unclear. To identify the cellular proteins that interact with the N terminus of NS5A and could be involved in its function, we conducted a yeast two-hybrid screening. As a result, we identified a cellular protein termed bovine NIK- and IKKbeta-binding protein (NIBP), which is involved in protein trafficking and nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) signalling in cells. The interaction of NS5A with NIBP was confirmed both in vitro and in vivo. Complementing our glutathione S-transferase pull-down and immunoprecipitation data are the confocal immunofluorescence results, which indicate that NS5A colocalized with NIBP on the endoplasmic reticulum in the cytoplasm of BVDV-infected cells. Moreover, the minimal residues of NIBP that interact with NS5A were mapped as aa 597-623. In addition, overexpression of NS5A inhibited NF-kappaB activation in HEK293 and LB9.K cells as determined by luciferase reporter-gene assay. We further showed that inhibition of endogenous NIBP by small interfering RNA molecules enhanced virus replication, indicating the importance of NIBP implications in BVDV pathogenesis. Being the first reported interaction between NIBP and a viral protein, this finding suggests a novel mechanism whereby viruses may subvert host-cell machinery for mediating trafficking as well as NF-kappaB signalling.


pmid: 30698509
title: Detection of bovine pestiviruses in sera of beef calves by a RT-PCR based on a newly designed set of pan-bovine pestivirus primers
abstract: The pestiviruses bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 and 2 (BVDV-1 and -2, respectively) and HoBi-like pestivirus (HoBiPeV) are important pathogens of cattle, and a number of reverse-transcription PCR (RT-PCR)-based assays have been developed for their detection in clinical specimens. We evaluated a newly designed set of pan-bovine pestivirus primers (BP189-389) in a gel-based RT-PCR screening test for pestiviruses in the sera of beef calves destined for export from southern Brazil. Serum samples positive for BVDV antigens by an antigen ELISA ( n = 135) were submitted to RT-PCR assays using different sets of primers, followed by nucleotide sequencing of the amplicons. RT-PCR with pestivirus primers 324-326 detected 110 positive samples: BVDV-1 ( n = 62), BVDV-2 ( n = 38), and HoBiPeV ( n = 10). A PCR using primers HCV90-368 detected 97 positive samples (64 BVDV-1; 33 BVDV-2). An additional RT-PCR round using BVDV-2-specific primers (2F-2R) detected 45 positive samples (including 38 detected by primers 324-326 and 33 by HCV90-368); whereas a RT-PCR using HoBiPeV-specific primers (N2-R5) detected 26 positive samples (including 10 detected by primers 324-326).The assay using the primers BP189-389 detected all 135 ELISA-positive samples, including the 26 HoBiPeV detected by primers N2-R5. Our results demonstrated that primers BP189-389 compare favorably against other primer sets in the detection of bovine pestiviruses, especially HoBiPeV. This conventional PCR may be useful for efficient detection of pestiviruses in bovine sera and other specimens as well, especially in laboratories without real-time PCR equipment.


pmid: 26072370
title: Identification of amino acid changes in the envelope glycoproteins of bovine viral diarrhea viruses isolated from alpaca that may be involved in host adaptation
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) are most commonly associated with infections of cattle. However, BVDV are often isolated from closely related ruminants with a number of BVDV-1b viruses being isolated from alpacas that were both acutely and persistently infected. The complete nucleotide sequence of the open reading frame of eleven alpaca-adapted BVDV isolates and the region encoding the envelope glycoproteins of an additional three isolates were determined. With the exception of one, all alpaca isolates were >99.2% similar at the nucleotide level. The Hercules isolate was more divergent, with 95.7% sequence identity to the other viruses. Sequence similarity of the 14 viruses indicated they were isolates of a single BVDV strain that had adapted to and were circulating through alpaca herds. Hercules was a more distantly related strain that has been isolated only once in Canada and represented a separate adaptation event that possessed the same adaptive changes. Comparison of amino acid sequences of alpaca and bovine-derived BVDV strains revealed three regions with amino acid sequences unique to all alpaca isolates. The first contained two small in-frame deletions near the N-terminus of the E2 glycoprotein. The second was found near the C-terminus of the E2 protein where four altered amino acids were located within a 30 amino acid domain that participates in E2 homodimerization. The third region contained three variable amino acids in the C-terminus of the E(rns) within the amphipathic helix membrane anchor. These changes were found in the polar side of the amphipathic helix and resulted in an increased charge within the polar face. Titration of bovine and alpaca viruses in both bovine and alpaca cells indicated that with increased charge in the amphipathic helix, the ability to infect alpaca cells also increased.


pmid: 9680138
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus induces apoptosis in blood mononuclear cells by a mechanism largely dependent on monocytes
abstract: The induction of apoptosis by bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was examined in bovine peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) incubated with an antigenically homologous pair of non-cytopathic and cytopathic BVDV. Our results show that the cytopathic biotype, in contrast to the non-cytopathic counterpart, induces apoptosis in PBMC. Flow cytometry analysis of cells undergoing apoptosis revealed that: (1) monocytes constitute the major cell population undergoing apoptosis; (2) cytopathic virus also induces apoptosis in BoCD4+, BoCD8+ and BoWC1+ T cells in whole PBMC cultures but not in purified T cell suspensions; (3) the degree of apoptosis of BoCD4+ and BoCD8+ T cells incubated with the cytopathic virus was significantly enhanced by the presence of monocytes. Taken together, these results suggest that bovine monocytes play an important role in apoptosis induced by cytopathic BVDV.


pmid: 9210929
title: The pathways for bovine virus diarrhoea virus biotypes in the pathogenesis of disease
abstract: BVDV infections of cattle ranges from the transient acute infections, which may be inapparent or mild, to mucosal disease which is inevitably fatal. On occasions the acute infections can lead to clinical episodes of diarrhoea an agalactia but as these syndromes cannot be reproduced experimentally, the pathogenesis remains unclear. The immunosuppressive effect of acute BVDV infections can enhance the clinical disease of other pathogens and this may be an important part of the calf respiratory disease complex. Although BVDV antigen has been demonstrated within the lymphoid tissues, for prolonged periods, the evidence for viral latency remains to be proven. Venereal infection is shown to be important in the transfer of virus to the foetus and congenital infections can cause abortions, malformations and the development of persistently viraemic calves. The two biotypes of BVDV, non-cytopathogenic and cytopathogenic, are described. Their sequential role in the pathogenesis of mucosal disease arises from the initial foetal infection with the non-cytopathogenic virus and the subsequent production of persistently viraemic calves. These calves may later develop mucosal disease as a result of superinfection with a "homologous" cytopathogenic virus and the possible origin of this biotype by mutation is discussed. Chronic disease is defined as a progressive wasting and usually diarrhoeic condition; it is suggested that this may develop following superinfection of persistently viraemic cattle with a "heterologous" cytopathogenic biotype.


pmid: 22673562
title: The characterization of the neutralizing bovine viral diarrhea virus monoclonal antibodies and antigenic diversity of E2 glycoprotein
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is associated with a range of economically important diseases of cattle including reproductive disorders and an acute fatal hemorrhagic disease. Neutralizing antibodies that bind to the E2 glycoprotein are important predictors of vaccinal immunity. Neutralization tests using the NADL strain of BVDV and five anti-E2 monoclonal antibodies showed one, Wb163, neutralized the NADL strain of BVDV in an unexpected manner. Its titer was 10,000 compared to <35 as reported previously. The present stock of NADL differed from that of the earlier study in that the amino acid at position 79 of E2 was Valine instead of Glutamic acid. MAb Wb163 may, however, recognize a less important neutralizing epitope than another mAb Wb166, because it was less cross reactive than mAb Wb166, had a neutralizing titer 50-fold lower than Wb166 and was of lower relative affinity than Wb166. Variations in the amino terminus of E2 will be discussed in the context of vaccinal immunity.


pmid: 20405436
title: Taxonomic and epidemiological aspects of the bovine viral diarrhoea virus 2 species through the observation of the secondary structures in the 5' genomic untranslated region
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus 2 (BVDV-2) strains demonstrated in cattle, sheep and adventitious contaminants of biological products were evaluated by the palindromic nucleotide substitutions (PNS) method at the three variable loci (V1, V2 and V3) in the 5' untranslated region (UTR), to determine their taxonomic status. Variation in conserved genomic sequences was used as a parameter for the epidemiological evaluation of the species in relation to geographic distribution, animal host and virulence. Four genotypes were identified within the species. Taxonomic segregation corresponded to geographic distribution of genotype variants. Genotype 2a was distributed worldwide and was also the only genotype that was circulating in sheep and cattle. Genotypes 2b, 2c and 2d were restricted to South America. Genotypes 2a and 2d were related to the contamination of biological products. Genetic variation could be related to the spread of BVDV-2 species variants in different geographic areas. Chronologically, the species emerged in North America in 1978 and spread to the United Kingdom and Japan, continental Europe, South America and New Zealand. Correlation between clinical features related with isolation of BVDV-2 strains and genetic variation indicated that subgenotype 1, variant 4 of genotype 2a, was related to a haemorrhagic syndrome. These observations suggest that the evaluation of genomic secondary structures, by identifying markers for expression of virus biological activities and species evolutionary history, may be a useful tool for the epidemiological evaluation of BVDV-2 species and possibly of other species of the genus Pestivirus.


pmid: 18281628
title: Investigation of the prevalence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in dairy cows in South Korea
abstract: Blood samples were collected from 1328 dairy cows of different parities in 46 herds in two regions of South Korea and tested for bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) by reverse transcriptase-PCR (RT-PCR) for the detection of viral sequences in whole blood and by a commercial elisa for the detection of bvdv-specific antibodies. None of the animals was positive by RT-PCR but 770 (58 per cent) were seropositive. The proportion of seropositive cows increased with their parity, but there was no difference between the seroprevalence of BVDV among the cows in the two regions.


pmid: 20437384
title: Genotypes of Pestivirus RNA detected in anti-influenza virus vaccines for human use
abstract: Nine polyvalent human influenza virus vaccines were tested by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for the presence of pestivirus RNA. Samples were selected from manufacturers in Europe and the USA. Three samples of the nine vaccines tested (33.3%) gave positive results for pestivirus RNA. The 5'-untranslated genomic region sequence of the contaminant pestivirus RNA was analysed based on primary nucleotide sequence homology and on secondary sequence structures characteristic to genotypes. Two sequences belonged to Pestivirus type-1 (bovine viral diarrhoea virus [BVDV]) species, genotypes BVDV-1b and BVDV-1e. These findings confirm previous reports, suggesting an improvement in preventive measures against contamination of biological products for human use.


pmid: 9990704
title: Prevalence of bovine virus diarrhoea virus infection in Belgian white blue cattle in southern Belgium
abstract: A study was conducted in Southern Belgium to determine the prevalence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection in Belgian White Blue herds. Blood samples were taken from 9685 cattle, representing all the stock on 61 farms, by local veterinarians to screen for persistently infected animals and to determine their serological status against BVDV. Some of the herds (42.5%) were selected because of a prior positive diagnosis of BVDV or on the grounds of suspicion of BVD. A capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to test for antigen. The prevalence of persistently infected animals was 0.75% overall and 1.46% in the 27 herds with at least one persistently infected animal. The prevalence of seropositive animals was determined with a competitive antibody ELISA and was found to be 65.5% for the animals as a whole but 53.8% for the herds without positively infected animals and 76.6% for the herds with at least one such animal. All the herds contained seropositive animals.


pmid: 1334566
title: Serological analysis of a small herd sample to predict presence or absence of animals persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in dairy herds
abstract: In 10 herds containing animals persistently infected (PI) with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and nine herds without such animals the probabilities of obtaining at least two antibody-positive animals in a test sample of three or five animals selected among animals six to 18 months old were calculated. Among herds with PI animals these probabilities, with the exception of one herd, varied between 0.725 and 0.992 when samples of three animals were tested and between 0.977 and one when samples of five animals were tested. Among herds without PI animals the probabilities varied between 0 and 0.015 when samples of three animals were tested and between 0 and 0.048 when samples of five animals were tested. Thus, based upon a few blood samples, herds with PI animals and herds without PI animals could be distinguished with a high degree of accuracy.


pmid: 2837867
title: Identification of hog cholera viral isolates by use of monoclonal antibodies to pestiviruses
abstract: A collection of 90 field isolates of hog cholera virus (HCV) was used to test the specificity of four hybridoma cell lines secreting monoclonal antibodies against pestiviruses. Reaction of virus isolates and monoclonal antibodies was controlled by an indirect immunofluorescence assay (IFA). Two monoclonal antibodies which had been generated against HC virus strain "Alfort 187" were reactive only with HCV field isolates and an HCV reference strain but not with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) reference strains. Two other monoclonal antibodies (generated against BVDV, strain NADL) reacted only with BVDV reference strains but not with HCV field isolates, although with 3 of these strains focal reactions involving only a few cells were detected. The ability to discriminate between both viruses is a diagnostic need which may be fulfilled by these monoclonal antibodies.


pmid: 16213613
title: Prevalence of BVDV infection in Greek dairy herds
abstract: Thirty-nine Greek dairy herds, totalling 6333 cattle, enrolled in a voluntary bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) eradication programme based on the identification and removal of persistently infected (PI) animals. The aim of this study was to estimate the prevalences of BVD antigen-positive and PI animals, and investigate the significance of the associations between the prevalence estimates and herd size. Initially, all animals were bled and examined for BVDV, using an antigen ELISA. A second sample was collected from the positive animals, after a period of at least three weeks. Animals retested positive were classified as PI. Antigen positive and PI animals were detected in all herds. The respective mean prevalences, adjusted for the test's accuracy and the herd-clustering effect, were 14% (95%CI: 11-18%) and 1.3% (0.8-1.8%), respectively. Herd size was not associated with the prevalence of antigen-positive or PI animals.


pmid: 30698509
title: Detection of bovine pestiviruses in sera of beef calves by a RT-PCR based on a newly designed set of pan-bovine pestivirus primers
abstract: The pestiviruses bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 and 2 (BVDV-1 and -2, respectively) and HoBi-like pestivirus (HoBiPeV) are important pathogens of cattle, and a number of reverse-transcription PCR (RT-PCR)-based assays have been developed for their detection in clinical specimens. We evaluated a newly designed set of pan-bovine pestivirus primers (BP189-389) in a gel-based RT-PCR screening test for pestiviruses in the sera of beef calves destined for export from southern Brazil. Serum samples positive for BVDV antigens by an antigen ELISA ( n = 135) were submitted to RT-PCR assays using different sets of primers, followed by nucleotide sequencing of the amplicons. RT-PCR with pestivirus primers 324-326 detected 110 positive samples: BVDV-1 ( n = 62), BVDV-2 ( n = 38), and HoBiPeV ( n = 10). A PCR using primers HCV90-368 detected 97 positive samples (64 BVDV-1; 33 BVDV-2). An additional RT-PCR round using BVDV-2-specific primers (2F-2R) detected 45 positive samples (including 38 detected by primers 324-326 and 33 by HCV90-368); whereas a RT-PCR using HoBiPeV-specific primers (N2-R5) detected 26 positive samples (including 10 detected by primers 324-326).The assay using the primers BP189-389 detected all 135 ELISA-positive samples, including the 26 HoBiPeV detected by primers N2-R5. Our results demonstrated that primers BP189-389 compare favorably against other primer sets in the detection of bovine pestiviruses, especially HoBiPeV. This conventional PCR may be useful for efficient detection of pestiviruses in bovine sera and other specimens as well, especially in laboratories without real-time PCR equipment.


pmid: 26072370
title: Identification of amino acid changes in the envelope glycoproteins of bovine viral diarrhea viruses isolated from alpaca that may be involved in host adaptation
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) are most commonly associated with infections of cattle. However, BVDV are often isolated from closely related ruminants with a number of BVDV-1b viruses being isolated from alpacas that were both acutely and persistently infected. The complete nucleotide sequence of the open reading frame of eleven alpaca-adapted BVDV isolates and the region encoding the envelope glycoproteins of an additional three isolates were determined. With the exception of one, all alpaca isolates were >99.2% similar at the nucleotide level. The Hercules isolate was more divergent, with 95.7% sequence identity to the other viruses. Sequence similarity of the 14 viruses indicated they were isolates of a single BVDV strain that had adapted to and were circulating through alpaca herds. Hercules was a more distantly related strain that has been isolated only once in Canada and represented a separate adaptation event that possessed the same adaptive changes. Comparison of amino acid sequences of alpaca and bovine-derived BVDV strains revealed three regions with amino acid sequences unique to all alpaca isolates. The first contained two small in-frame deletions near the N-terminus of the E2 glycoprotein. The second was found near the C-terminus of the E2 protein where four altered amino acids were located within a 30 amino acid domain that participates in E2 homodimerization. The third region contained three variable amino acids in the C-terminus of the E(rns) within the amphipathic helix membrane anchor. These changes were found in the polar side of the amphipathic helix and resulted in an increased charge within the polar face. Titration of bovine and alpaca viruses in both bovine and alpaca cells indicated that with increased charge in the amphipathic helix, the ability to infect alpaca cells also increased.


pmid: 18182514
title: Sensitivity of polymerase chain reaction for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus in pooled serum samples and use of pooled polymerase chain reaction to determine prevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus in auction market cattle
abstract: Two reverse transcription-nested polymerase chain reaction tests, 1 quantitative (qRT-nPCR) and 1 standard (RT-nPCR), were evaluated to assess sensitivity for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) of a single positive serum sample in a pool of 30. The RT-nPCR and qRT-nPCR each detected 95 of 100 known positives. The RT-nPCR was used to estimate the prevalence of BVDV in adult beef cows. Serum samples were obtained from the US Department of Agriculture brucellosis testing laboratories in 3 Midwestern states. Samples originated from auction markets and private treaty sales throughout the 3 states. A total of 2,990 serum samples were collected and randomly pooled into 100 pools for testing. Two of the 100 pools of field samples were positive, and each positive pool had a single positive individual sample upon confirmation. The estimate of BVDV prevalence in adult cows in this study was 0.07%. This study estimates the diagnostic sensitivity of RT-nPCR for BVDV and confirms that it is a useful diagnostic tool for pools of 30 serum samples and that prevalence of BVDV in adult cattle from auction markets is low.


pmid: 32147269
title: A description and qualitative comparison of the elements of heterogeneous bovine viral diarrhea control programs that influence confidence of freedom
abstract: For endemic infections in cattle that are not regulated at the European Union level, such as bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), European Member States have implemented control or eradication programs (CEP) tailored to their specific situations. Different methods are used to assign infection-free status in CEP; therefore, the confidence of freedom associated with the "free" status generated by different CEP are difficult to compare, creating problems for the safe trade of cattle between territories. Safe trade would be facilitated with an output-based framework that enables a transparent and standardized comparison of confidence of freedom for CEP across herds, regions, or countries. The current paper represents the first step toward development of such a framework by seeking to describe and qualitatively compare elements of CEP that contribute to confidence of freedom. For this work, BVDV was used as a case study. We qualitatively compared heterogeneous BVDV CEP in 6 European countries: Germany, France, Ireland, the Netherlands, Sweden, and Scotland. Information about BVDV CEP that were in place in 2017 and factors influencing the risk of introduction and transmission of BVDV (the context) were collected using an existing tool, with modifications to collect information about aspects of control and context. For the 6 participating countries, we ranked all individual elements of the CEP and their contexts that could influence the probability that cattle from a herd categorized as BVDV-free are truly free from infection. Many differences in the context and design of BVDV CEP were found. As examples, CEP were either mandatory or voluntary, resulting in variation in risks from neighboring herds, and risk factors such as cattle density and the number of imported cattle varied greatly between territories. Differences were also found in both testing protocols and definitions of freedom from disease. The observed heterogeneity in both the context and CEP design will create difficulties when comparing different CEP in terms of confidence of freedom from infection. These results highlight the need for a standardized practical methodology to objectively and quantitatively determine confidence of freedom resulting from different CEP around the world.


pmid: 25515363
title: Effect of vaccination with a multivalent modified-live viral vaccine on reproductive performance in synchronized beef heifers
abstract: Prebreeding vaccination should provide fetal and abortive protection against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and bovine herpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1) but not impede reproduction when administered to cattle before estrus synchronization and breeding. The objective was to assess reproductive performance when naive beef heifers were vaccinated with modified-live viral (MLV) vaccine 2 days after unsynchronized estrus, and then revaccinated with MLV vaccine at 10 or 31 days before synchronized natural breeding. Sixty beef heifers naive to BVDV and BoHV-1 were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups. Groups A and B (n = 20 per group) were vaccinated with MLV vaccine containing BVDV and BoHV-1 at 2 days after initial detected estrus, and then revaccinated 30 days later, which corresponded to 10 days (group A) or 31 days (group B) before synchronized natural breeding. Groups C and D (n = 10 per group) served as controls and were vaccinated with an inactivated vaccine that did not contain BVDV or BoHV-1 at the same time points as groups A and B, respectively. Estrous behavior was assessed using radio frequency technology. Estrus synchronization was performed, with initiation occurring at revaccination (groups A and C) or 21 days after revaccination (groups B and D). After synchronization, heifers were submitted to a bull breeding pasture for 45 days. At the end of the breeding period, heifers were assessed for pregnancy using ultrasonography. Progesterone concentrations were evaluated at estrus and 10 days after unsynchronized and synchronized estrus, at initial pregnancy check, and at the end of the study. All pregnant heifers in groups A and B and five pregnant heifers in group C were euthanized between 44 and 62 days of gestation and ovarian and conceptus tissues were assayed for BVDV and BoHV-1. Vaccination with MLV vaccine did not result in significant negative reproductive impact based on the duration of interestrus intervals, proportion of heifers exhibiting estrus within 5 days after synchronization, serum progesterone concentrations, pregnancy rates, and pregnancies in the first 5 days of the breeding season. Bovine viral diarrhea virus and BoHV-1 were not detected in luteal tissue, ovarian tissue, or fetal tissues. Use of MLV vaccine did not impede reproduction, when revaccination was performed at 10 or 31 days before synchronized natural breeding.


pmid: 33638128
title: Detection of Pestivirus A (bovine viral diarrhea virus 1) in free-living wild boars in Brazil
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a major pathogen in cattle herds. Considering the epidemiological importance of pestiviruses and the process of wild boar invasion in Brazil, this study aimed to investigate the presence of BVDV in free-living boars. Forty-nine free-living wild boars were collected by exotic wildlife controller agents in 2017 and 2018. The presence of BVDV antibodies was evaluated in 42 serum samples using the virus neutralization test, and the detection of BVDV RNA was performed from the 5'UTR genomic region by RT-PCR assay in 49 lung tissue samples followed by sequencing of amplicons. BVDV neutralizing antibodies in serum were not identified in any of the evaluated samples. However, 3/49 (6.12%) lung samples were positive for BVDV RNA and classified one as BVDV-1a and two as 1d subgenotype. This report identified BVDV RNA in free-living wild boars and these results should be considered in BVDV control programs, especially in extensive beef cattle rearing systems.


pmid: 17581680
title: Recombinant E2 glycoprotein of bovine viral diarrhea virus induces a solid humoral neutralizing immune response but fails to confer total protection in cattle
abstract: Two recombinant baculoviruses were produced in order to obtain a bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) immunogen: AcNPV/E2 expressing E2 glycoprotein, and AcNPV/E0E1E2 expressing the polyprotein region coding for the three structural proteins of BVDV (E0, E1, and E2). Mice were immunized with Sf9 cells infected with the recombinant baculoviruses in a water in oil formulation and the production of neutralizing antibodies was evaluated. Since E2 elicited higher neutralizing antibody titers than E0-E1-E2 polyprotein, it was selected to immunize cattle. Calves received two doses of recombinant E2 vaccine and were challenged with homologous BVDV 37 days later. The recombinant immunogen induced neutralizing titers which showed a mean value of 1.5 +/- 0.27 on the day of challenge and reached a top value of 3.36 +/- 0.36, 47 days later (84 days post-vaccination). On the other hand, sera from animals which received mock-infected Sf9 cells did not show neutralizing activity until 25 days post-challenge (62 days post-vaccination), suggesting that these antibodies were produced as a consequence of BVDV challenge. Even when no total protection was observed in cattle, in vitro viral neutralization assays revealed that the recombinant immunogen was able to induce neutralizing antibody synthesis against the homologous strain as well as against heterologous strains in a very efficient way.


pmid: 11714969
title: The NS5A protein of bovine viral diarrhoea virus interacts with the alpha subunit of translation elongation factor-1
abstract: A cellular protein that interacts with the NS5A polypeptide of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was identified in a yeast two-hybrid screen. The NS5A interactor was identified as the alpha subunit of bovine translation elongation factor 1A (eEF1A). Cell-free binding studies were performed with chimeric NS5A fused to glutathione S-transferase (GST-NS5A) expressed in bacteria. GST-NS5A bound specifically to both in vitro-translated and mammalian cell-expressed eEF1A. Moreover, purified eEF1A bound specifically to GST-NS5A attached to a solid phase. Conservation of this interaction was then analysed using a set of NS5A proteins derived from divergent BVDV strains encompassing known biotypes and genotypes. NS5A from all BVDV strains tested so far interacted with eEF1A. The conserved association of eEF1A with virus molecules involved in genome replication and the postulated role of pestivirus and hepacivirus NS5A in replication indicate that this interaction may play a role in the replication of BVDV.


pmid: 9413105
title: A subunit vaccine based on glycoprotein E2 of bovine virus diarrhea virus induces fetal protection in sheep against homologous challenge
abstract: The primary aim of a bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV) vaccine is to prevent transplacental transmission of virus. E2 genes of three BVDV strains, belonging to antigenic groups IA, IB and II, were expressed in insect cells. Three groups of 12 ewes were immunized twice with one of the E2 proteins. A fourth group served as a control. The ewes were served and the pregnant ewes of each vaccination group were allotted to three different challenge groups. Seven weeks after the second vaccination the ewes were challenged intranasally with one of the three BVDV strains. Three weeks later the fetuses were removed and fetal organs were collected for virus isolation. At the day of challenge all vaccinated ewes had neutralizing antibodies against the homologous BVDV strains. One E2 subunit vaccine prevented fetal infection after homologous challenge.


pmid: 28178907
title: Investigation of AGID and two commercial ELISAs for the detection of Bovine viral diarrhea virus-specific antibodies in sheep serum
abstract: Effective control and the eventual eradication of Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) from cattle populations depend on the accurate identification of infected animals. Although typically a disease agent of cattle, BVDV is known to infect a wide variety of nonbovine species, including sheep. However, validation of serologic tests in these nonbovine species, particularly sheep, is lacking. We analyzed 99 sheep sera (57 samples from Pestivirus-naive sheep, and 42 samples from BVDV-inoculated sheep) in order to investigate 3 serologic tests: the agarose gel immunodiffusion (AGID) and 2 commercial enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) for detection of BVDV antibodies. At the manufacturer's cutoff thresholds, the AGID performed with 95.2% diagnostic sensitivity; ELISA-A performed with sensitivity of 90.5% and ELISA-B with 69.1%. All 3 tests performed with 100% diagnostic specificity. Two-graph receiver operating characteristic analysis showed that performance characteristics were optimized, such that both diagnostic sensitivity and diagnostic specificity were >95% for both ELISAs, if the thresholds were altered to 34.9% inhibition for ELISA-A and 63.5 signal-to-noise ratio for ELISA-B.


pmid: 22079882
title: An alternative -1/+2 open reading frame exists within viral N(pro)(1-19) region of bovine viral diarrhea virus SD-1
abstract: We previously reported the engineering of an N(pro)-disrupted bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), BSD1-N(pro)/eGFP2A (Fan and Bird, 2008a). Here, we report that BSD1-N(pro)/eGFP2A survives a single nucleotide missing in its C-terminal eGFP region. By using our established reverse genetics system for BVDV, we confirm that the viral mutant is rescued through a -1/+2 ORF initiated in the N(pro)(1-19)/eGFP region of the mutant viral genome. We furthermore uncover that this event occurs in the N(pro)(1-19) region of BVDV strain SD-1. The rescued viral mutant showed dramatic reductions in levels of both viral RNA and viral protein in host cells. Although the mutant is similar to the native strain in viral kinetics, the peak yield of the mutant is decreased dramatically. These findings reveal the existence of an alternative -1/+2 ORF in the N(pro)(1-19) region during the replication of BVDV and open a new avenue to understand the life cycle and pathogenesis of pestiviruses.


pmid: 20638852
title: Synergistic experimental/computational studies on arylazoenamine derivatives that target the bovine viral diarrhea virus RNA-dependent RNA polymerase
abstract: Starting from a series of arylazoenamine derivatives, shown to be selectively and potently active against the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), we developed a hierarchical combined experimental/molecular modeling strategy to explore the drug leads for the BVDV RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. Accordingly, BVDV mutants resistant to lead compounds in our series were isolated, and the mutant residues on the viral molecular target, the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase, were identified. Docking procedures upon previously identified pharmacophoric constraints and actual mutational data were carried out, and the binding affinity of all active compounds for the RdRp was estimated. Given the excellent agreement between in silico and in vitro data, this procedure is currently being employed in the design a new series of more selective and potent BVDV inhibitors.


pmid: 11955635
title: Genetic and antigenic variability in bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolates from Belgium
abstract: This report describes the genetic and antigenic variability of bovine viral diarrhea virus strains isolated in Belgium. Part of the 5' untranslated region and the 5' end of the gp53 (E2) coding sequence were amplified by PCR and sequenced. Phylogenetic analysis showed that most field isolates segregated into genotypes Ib or II. Only one out of 28 field isolates belonged to genotype Ia. Interestingly, some type I strains were equally divergent from types Ia and Ib strains and clustered into additional subtypes within genotype I. Immune sera from young calves experimentally inoculated with field isolates first identified on the basis of their sequences were used in two-way neutralisation experiments. The results clearly differentiated type I from type II strains although some degree of cross-neutralisation was observed. Within type I, the new clusters could not be antigenically differentiated from the more prevalent type Ib strains or from type Ia strain NADL, suggesting that BVDV genotype I is antigenically homogeneous. The isolation of BVDV types I and II strains from cell lines and from a bovine vaccine suggest that molecular epidemiology surveillance is warranted for BVDV.


pmid: 9210941
title: cDNA probes for the detection of pestiviruses
abstract: Probes were prepared from genomic RNA of Hog Cholera Virus (HCV) after synthesis of cDNA and cloning. Six probes were selected according to their place on the viral genome determined by sequencing and comparison with BVDV sequence. These probes were hybridized with two strains of HCV (Alfort and Nord), two strains of Bovine Viral Diarrhea (BVDV) (NADL, New York) and four strains of Border Disease (BD) (Lyon 1, Lyon 2, Aveyron, IEMVT). This panel of six probes seem to be able to differentiate pestiviruses but some differences rely only on slight intensity of the hybridization.


pmid: 2560859
title: Comparison of the agar gel immunodiffusion test and ELISA in the detection of bovine leukosis virus antibody in cattle persistently infected with bovine virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: When six cattle persistently infected with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) were inoculated with lymphocytes infected with bovine leukosis virus (BLV), a depressed antibody response to BLV was observed by ELISA which was due to a decrease in IgG1 synthesis. The ELISA was more sensitive and more reliable than the agar gel immunodiffusion (AGID) test in detecting BLV infection in cattle persistently infected with BVDV. Decreased antibody responses were manifested in the AGID test by negative, inconclusive or weakly positive reactions: only two of the six cattle developed antibodies that generated positive AGID reactions.


pmid: 15744562
title: Viral sequence insertions and a novel cellular insertion in the NS2 gene of cytopathic isolates of bovine viral diarrhea virus as potential cytopathogenicity markers
abstract: Cytopathogenicity of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has been shown to correlate with the presence of insertions of cellular sequences, duplication of viral sequences with or without insertions, deletions, and point mutations in the genomes of cytopathogenic (cp) strains. In the present study we have investigated cytopathogenicity markers in the genomes of six cp BVDV isolates. The viruses were selected as representatives of various forms of BVDV infection, in some cases presumably induced by vaccination with a live attenuated vaccine. The complete NS2-3 coding region of the six isolates and of the vaccine virus were amplified by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and sequenced. In the genomes of four isolates (H6379, H6712, H8427 and H-BVD MD) and of the vaccine virus, a 45-nucleotide viral insertion was found at nucleotide position 4355, encompassing nucleotides 8402-8446, that encode 15 amino acids of the NS4B/NS5A junction region in a normal BVDV genome. Isolate H3887 had a 21-nucleotide insertion of non-viral origin, also located at nucleotide position 4355. This insertion has a high homology with a gene coding for murine interferon-induced guanylate-binding protein 1, and represents the first non-viral insertion identified at this position of the NS2 coding region. Isolate H3142 carries a 42-nucleotide insertion at position 4361, identical to a part of the NS5B gene mapping to position 11078-11119. Additionally, this isolate also has a deletion of three nucleotides (positions 4448-4450). The role of the 45-nucleotide insertion in expression of NS3 was investigated using the vaccine virus. The NS2-3 gene of this virus, and that of a generated insertion-negative variant were cloned in the mammalian expression vector pCI, and expressed in bovine turbinate cells. Western blot analysis revealed that the insertion contributed to a partial cleavage of NS2-3 generating NS3, the marker protein for cytopathogenicity in BVDV. The genome rearrangements found in these isolates occurred preferentially at position 4355, suggesting that this part of the genome could represent a potential hot spot for recombination events in ncp BVDV. The molecular mechanism underlying this phenomenon, however, remains to be elucidated.


pmid: 9210941
title: cDNA probes for the detection of pestiviruses
abstract: Probes were prepared from genomic RNA of Hog Cholera Virus (HCV) after synthesis of cDNA and cloning. Six probes were selected according to their place on the viral genome determined by sequencing and comparison with BVDV sequence. These probes were hybridized with two strains of HCV (Alfort and Nord), two strains of Bovine Viral Diarrhea (BVDV) (NADL, New York) and four strains of Border Disease (BD) (Lyon 1, Lyon 2, Aveyron, IEMVT). This panel of six probes seem to be able to differentiate pestiviruses but some differences rely only on slight intensity of the hybridization.


pmid: 2560859
title: Comparison of the agar gel immunodiffusion test and ELISA in the detection of bovine leukosis virus antibody in cattle persistently infected with bovine virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: When six cattle persistently infected with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) were inoculated with lymphocytes infected with bovine leukosis virus (BLV), a depressed antibody response to BLV was observed by ELISA which was due to a decrease in IgG1 synthesis. The ELISA was more sensitive and more reliable than the agar gel immunodiffusion (AGID) test in detecting BLV infection in cattle persistently infected with BVDV. Decreased antibody responses were manifested in the AGID test by negative, inconclusive or weakly positive reactions: only two of the six cattle developed antibodies that generated positive AGID reactions.


pmid: 25215589
title: Understanding the interaction determinants of CAPN1 inhibition by CAST4 from bovines using molecular modeling techniques
abstract: HCV-induced CAPN activation and its effects on virus-infected cells in a host-immune system have been studied recently. It has been shown that the HCV-nonstructural 5A protein acts as both an inducer and a substrate for host CAPN protease; it participates in suppressing the TNF-α-induced apoptosis response and downstream IFN-induced antiviral processes. However, little is known regarding the disturbance of antiviral responses generated by bovine CAPN activation by BVDV, which is a surrogate model of HCV and is one of the most destructive diseases leading to great economic losses in cattle herds worldwide. This is also thought to be associated with the effects of either small CAPN inhibitors or the natural inhibitor CAST. They mainly bind to the binding site of CAPN substrate proteins and competitively inhibit the binding of the enzyme substrates to possibly defend against the two viruses (HCV and BVDV) for anti-viral immunity. To devise a new stratagem to discover lead candidates for an anti-BVDV drug, we first attempted to understand the bovine CAPN-CAST interaction sites and the interaction constraints of local binding architectures, were well reflected in the geometry between the pharmacophore features and its shape constraints identified using our modeled bovine CAPN1/CAST4 complex structures. We propose a computer-aided molecular design of an anti-BVDV drug as a mimetic CAST inhibitor to develop a rule-based screening function for adjusting the puzzle of relationship between bovine CAPN1 and the BVDV nonstructural proteins from all of the data obtained in the study.


pmid: 24965127
title: bta-miR-29b attenuates apoptosis by directly targeting caspase-7 and NAIF1 and suppresses bovine viral diarrhea virus replication in MDBK cells
abstract: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small, endogenous, noncoding RNA molecules that serve as powerful regulators of multiple cellular processes, including apoptosis, differentiation, growth, and proliferation. Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) contributes significantly to health-related economic losses in the beef and dairy industries. Although BVDV-induced apoptosis correlates with increased intracellular viral RNA accumulation and with bta-miR-29b (miR-29b) expression upregulation in Madin-Darby bovine kidney (MDBK) cells infected with BVDV strain NADL, the role of miR-29b in regulating BVDV-infection-related apoptosis remains unexplored. Here, we report that miR-29b serves as a new miRNA regulating apoptosis. We showed that miR-29b target sequences were present in the 3' untranslated regions of 2 key apoptosis regulators mRNAs, cysteine aspartases-7 (caspase-7) and nuclear apoptosis-inducing factor 1 (NAIF1). Indeed, upon miRNA overexpression, both mRNA and protein levels of caspase-7 and NAIF1 were decreased. We further found that miR-29b attenuated apoptosis by directly regulating intracellular levels of caspase-7 and NAIF1. Moreover, apoptosis blockage by miR-29b was rescued upon co-infection of MDBK cells with lentiviruses expressing caspase-7 and NAIF1. Importantly, miR-29b decreased BVDV NADL envelope glycoprotein E1 mRNA levels and suppressed viral replication. These studies advance our understanding of the mechanisms of miRNAs in mediating the cells combating viral infections.


pmid: 24656648
title: Laboratory diagnosis and transmissibility of bovine viral diarrhea virus from a bull with a persistent testicular infection
abstract: Recently, in the United States, a dairy bull was diagnosed as the second confirmed case of persistent testicular infection (PTI) with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). The first objective of this study was to evaluate the testing methodologies currently used by the artificial insemination industry in order to improve the detection of bulls with PTI. This study evaluated the impact of multiple factors ([1] sample tested, [2] sample handling, [3] assay used, and [4] assay methodology) on the sensitivity of detection of BVDV. The second objective of this study was to evaluate the transmissibility of BVDV from the bull through casual or sexual contact. Results from this study indicate that straws of semen should be transported to the diagnostic laboratory in liquid nitrogen dry shippers. PCR proved to be a more sensitive assay than virus isolation; however, certain PCR protocols exhibited greater diagnostic sensitivity than others. Insemination with cryopreserved semen from this infected bull caused viral transmission to a seronegative heifer resulting in viremia and seroconversion. After 42 months of age, the bull appeared to clear the infection. In conclusion, this bull validates that natural exposure to a 1a strain of BVDV can result in a unique PTI causing contamination of semen with detectable infectious virus. Appropriate handling and testing of samples is necessary in order to detect bulls exhibiting PTI. Additionally, PTI with BVDV may potentially be cleared after an extended duration.


pmid: 23780932
title: Bovine immunoglobulin G does not have an inhibitory effect on diagnostic polymerase chain reaction utilizing magnetic bead extraction methods as demonstrated on the detection of Bovine viral diarrhea virus in dairy calves
abstract: The objective of the current study was to investigate if the presence of colostral-derived immunoglobulin G (IgG) in blood is an inhibitor of diagnostic polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for detection of Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Eleven precolostral and 11 postcolostral blood samples in ethylenediamine tetra-acetic acid (EDTA) anticoagulant as well as serum samples were collected from 11 Holstein bull calves. Calves were fed 3 liters of colostrum once, by oroesophageal tubing. Postcolostral, blood, and serum samples were collected at 48 hr of age. Serum IgG concentrations were determined in the precolostral and postcolostral serum samples using radial immunodiffusion. The blood samples (precolostral and postcolostral) were spiked with BVDV, and 2 diagnostic PCR extraction methods were applied to each sample. The extraction and amplification efficiencies of the 2 PCR methods on the precolostral and postcolostral EDTA blood samples were evaluated. Two of the 11 calves had inadequate passive transfer of colostral immunoglobulins at 48 hr of age based on the serum IgG concentrations. All blood samples from calves were negative for BVDV prior to the spiking with the virus. Evaluation of the 2 different methods among 3 different virus concentrations demonstrated that there was no difference in extraction or amplification efficiency in precolostral and postcolostral samples. The results of this study suggest that bovine IgG is not an inhibitor of PCR used for detection of BVDV in cattle. The methods used in the current study are acceptable for PCR detection of BVDV in cattle.


pmid: 12243890
title: Clinical and epidemiologic observations of bovine viral diarrhea virus in the northwestern United States
abstract: Retrospective analyses of cases from which bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was isolated from 1980 to 2000 were conducted. These cases originated from the northwestern US and included both beef and dairy cattle. The results indicated that there was a shift in diseases associated with BVDV infection and in the animal age at onset of disease. Comparative results from the 1980 data indicated a low fetal infection rate (<5%), followed by steady increases of clinical cases and peaking at 6 months (30%). By 2000, the shift of BVDV cases was noticeable and indicated a biphasic occurrence of disease. The first phase was fetal infections, which increased to >25%, followed by a second phase at 6 months (>35%). Phylogenetic analysis was conducted on selected isolates from the time period 1998-2000 (n = 54). There were representative viral isolates from the two genotypes (BVDV1 and BVDV2), as well as subgenotypes, BVDV1a and BVDV1b. The types were further correlated with the clinical manifestation, which were reported as mucosal disease, persistently infected (PI)-poor doer, and abortion-open cows. The results indicated that BVDV were distributed throughout the clinical spectrum of disease, with BVDV2 representing the greatest frequency of isolation, and the greatest association with abortion-open cows. When the BVDV genotypes and subgenotypes were categorized into early (<100 days gestation) versus late (>100 days gestation) fetal infections, there was an inverse relationship noted. It was observed that BVDV1a was associated least with early infection (14%) and most with late infections (86%). BVDV1b was intermediate, followed by BVDV2, which was associated more with early infections (45%) and less with late infections (55%) when compared with BVDV1a and BVDV1b.


pmid: 11413291
title: RNA recombination between persisting pestivirus and a vaccine strain: generation of cytopathogenic virus and induction of lethal disease
abstract: Molecular analysis of a cytopathogenic (cp) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolate (1741) obtained from a case of mucosal disease (MD) led to the identification of five different viral subgenomic RNAs in addition to a noncytopathogenic (noncp) strain (NCP 1741). For each of the subgenomes, a large internal deletion was found together with an inserted sequence encoding part of ribosomal protein S27a fused to an N-terminally truncated ubiquitin monomer. Surprisingly, the two cellular insertions together with flanking viral sequences encoding parts of NS3 and NS4B are >99% identical to the previously described sequence of BVDV vaccine strain RIT (P. Becher, M. Orlich, and H.-J. Thiel, J. Virol. 72:8697-8704, 1998), while the remainder of the subgenomes is derived from the genome of NCP 1741. Further analyses including molecular cloning and nucleotide sequencing of the recombination partners revealed that both homologous and nonhomologous RNA recombination contributed to the generation of the viral subgenomes. Interestingly, for another cp BVDV isolate (CP 4584) from an independent case of MD, again an insertion of a RIT-derived sequence element was detected. In contrast to CP 1741, for CP 4584 a duplication of the genomic region encoding NS3 and parts of NS4A and NS4B was found. Transfection of bovine cells with RNA transcribed from a chimeric cDNA construct showed that the RIT-derived insertion together with the CP 4584-specific duplication of viral sequences represents the genetic basis of cytopathogenicity of CP 4584. Remarkably, passages of the recovered cp virus in cell culture led to emergence of noncp BVDV and a number of viral subgenomes whose genome organization was similar to that in BVDV 1741.


pmid: 31036076
title: Neighbourhood contacts and trade movements drive the regional spread of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV)
abstract: To explore the regional spread of endemic pathogens, investigations are required both at within and between population levels. The bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is such a pathogen, spreading among cattle herds mainly due to trade movements and neighbourhood contacts, and causing an endemic disease with economic consequences. To assess the contribution of both transmission routes on BVDV regional and local spread, we developed an original epidemiological model combining data-driven and mechanistic approaches, accounting for heterogeneous within-herd dynamics, animal movements and neighbourhood contacts. Extensive simulations were performed over 9 years in an endemic context in a French region with high cattle density. The most uncertain model parameters were calibrated on summary statistics of epidemiological data, highlighting that neighbourhood contacts and within-herd transmission should be high. We showed that neighbourhood contacts and trade movements complementarily contribute to BVDV spread on a regional scale in endemically infected and densely populated areas, leading to intense fade-out/colonization events: neighbourhood contacts generate the vast majority of outbreaks (72%) but mostly in low immunity herds and correlated to a rather short presence of persistently infected animals (P); trade movements generate fewer infections but could affect herds with higher immunity and generate a prolonged presence of P. Both movements and neighbourhood contacts should be considered when designing control or eradication strategies for densely populated region.


pmid: 21822791
title: Seroprevalence and risk factors associated with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in non-vaccinated dairy and dual purpose cattle herds in Ecuador
abstract: A cross-sectional study was carried out to determine the seroprevalence and risk factors associated with Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in non-vaccinated dairy and dual-purpose cattle herds from Ecuador. A total of 2,367 serum samples from 346 herds were collected from June 2008 through February 2009. A questionnaire, which included variables related to cattle, health, management measures, and the environment, was filled out in each herd. A commercial indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay test was used to determine the seropositivity. A logistic regression model was used to determine risk factors at herd level. The individual seroprevalence for BVDV in non-vaccinated herds in Ecuador was 36.2% (857/2,367; CI(95%), 34.3-38.1%). The herd prevalence was 74% (256/346; CI(95%), 69.4-78.6%) and the intra-herd prevalence ranged between 11.1% and 100% (mean = 51.6%). The logistic regression model showed that the density of cattle farms in the area (more than 70%; OR, 1.94; CI(95%), 1.21-3.2) and the altitude (higher than 2,338 m above sea level; 2.33; CI(95%), 1.4-3.9) are potential risk factors associated with BVDV infection.


pmid: 18262667
title: Prevalence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus antibodies in bulk tank milk of industrial dairy cattle herds in suburb of Mashhad-Iran
abstract: Bulk milk for the presence of antibodies against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) from 38 industrial dairy cattle herds complexes with 250-3000 Holstein dairy cows in suburb of Mashhad-Iran was tested. None of the herds were vaccinated against BVDV. Commercial indirect ELISA-kit for the detection of specific antibodies was used. The result could be read visually where the optical density (OD) was measured at 450 nm. The percent positivity (PP) values >or=7 and <7 interpreted positive and negative, respectively. According to this study the apparent and the true prevalence of BVDV antibody-positive herds was 89.47 and 93.98%, respectively. The range of PP was 1.59-107.66 among the herds. The OD in 52.63% bulk milk of the herds was very high. It is concluded that exposure to BVD virus was widely distributed in the dairy cattle herds in suburb of Mashhad-Iran.


pmid: 15993973
title: The glycosylation pattern of baculovirus expressed envelope protein E2 affects its ability to prevent infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: We have investigated the role of glycosylation of the envelope glycoprotein E2 of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), produced in insect cells, in BVDV infection. When amino acids predicated to code for the C-terminal N-linked glycosylation site were mutated the resulting protein was less efficient than wild type protein at preventing infection of susceptible cells with BVDV. In addition, mutational analysis showed that a further two predicted N-terminal N-linked glycosylation sites of E2 are required for efficient production of recombinant protein.


pmid: 15062475
title: Laboratory diagnosis of bovine viral diarrhea virus infections
abstract: The past 20 years have witnessed dramatic improvements in laboratory methods for diagnosing bovine viral diarrhea virus(BVDV) infections. However, improvements in diagnostic technology have not necessarily led to improved diagnosis of BVDV at the individual animal or herd level. This article reviews BVDV laboratory diagnostic methods in the context of their rational application for improved detection of BVDV in the field.


pmid: 10028178
title: Prevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in bulls in artificial insemination centers in Poland
abstract: This study was directed at the evaluation of the prevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in bulls in artificial insemination centers. Both serological and virological examinations were performed. Blood samples were tested in micro-seroneutralization test for BVDV antibodies. Virus isolation was performed in cell culture and BVDV antigen was detected in an indirect immunofluorescence assay with monoclonal antibodies. One hundred and seventy-five serum samples and 219 whole blood samples for virus isolation were tested. Neutralizing antibodies were found in 86% of the bulls. Persistent infection (PI) was detected in 0.9% of the analyzed blood samples.


pmid: 2132154
title: The pathogenesis of bovine virus diarrhoea virus infections
abstract: Bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) disease in cattle ranges from the transient acute infections, which may be inapparent or mild, to mucosal disease which is inevitably fatal. On occasions the acute infections can lead to clinical episodes of diarrhoea and agalactia but as these syndromes cannot be reproduced experimentally, the pathogenesis remains unclear. The immunosuppressive effect of acute BVDV infections can enhance the clinical disease of other pathogens and this may be an important part of the calf respiratory disease complex. Although BVDV antigen has been demonstrated within the lymphoid tissues, for prolonged periods, the evidence for viral latency remains to be proven. Venereal infection is shown to be important in the transfer of virus to the foetus and congenital infections can cause abortions, malformations and the development of persistently viraemic calves. The two biotypes of the virus, non-cytopathogenic and cytopathogenic, are described. Their sequential role in the pathogenesis of mucosal disease arises from the initial foetal infection with the non-cytopathogenic virus and the subsequent production of persistently viraemic calves. These calves may later develop mucosal disease as a result of superinfection with a "homologous" cytopathogenic virus. The possible origin of this biotype by mutation is discussed. Chronic disease is defined as a progressive wasting and usually diarrhoeic condition; it is suggested that this may develop following superinfection of persistently viraemic cattle with a "heterologous" cytopathogenic biotype.


pmid: 2156373
title: Effect of host cell on the in vitro characteristics expressed by two bovine viral diarrhea virus strains
abstract: Growth curves, immunofluorescence assays and radioimmunoprecipitation analysis of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)-specified polypeptides were used to determine the susceptibility of bovine endothelial cells (BECs) to infection with strains of BVDV. One strain of the virus, NY1, normally non-cytopathic when grown in bovine turbinate cells (BTUs), did not parallel this type behavior in BECs. Virus replication kinetics, morphological changes in infected cells and resolution of viral polypeptides suggest that NY1 replicated and showed cytopathologic changes in infected BECs similar to a cytopathic strain of BVDV, strain C24V. Two previously unreported viral polypeptides were identified in NY1-infected endothelial cells. These polypeptides had molecular weights of 92,000 (92kDa) and 72kDa. These findings suggest that BVDV-cell interactions occurring in BECs differ from those observed in similarly infected BTUs.


pmid: 23453839
title: N-Alkyldeoxynojirimycin derivatives with novel terminal tertiary amide substitution for treatment of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), Dengue, and Tacaribe virus infections
abstract: Novel N-alkyldeoxynojirimycins (NADNJs) with two hydrophobic groups attached to a nitrogen linker on the alkyl chain were designed. A novel NADNJ containing a terminal tertiary carboxamide moiety was discovered that was a potent inhibitor against BVDV. Further optimization resulted in a structurally more stable lead compound 24 with a submicromolar EC50 against BVDV, Dengue, and Tacaribe; and low cytotoxicity.


pmid: 23248854
title: [Analysis of the cell tissue culture contamination with the bovine viral diarrhea virus and mycoplasmas]
abstract: Different cell tissue cultures and commercial fetal calf sera (FTS) used in biological and virological research were screened for the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV, Pestivirus genus, Flaviviridae family) and mycoplasma contamination. BVDV was detected using RT-PCR and Indirect immunofluorescence (with monoclonal antibodies) methods in 33% cases of the studied cell lines and in > 60% cases of FCS. BVDV was shown to present and reproduce in high spectra of human cell lines, as well as in monkey, pig, rabbit, goat, dog, and cat cells at high levels (up to 100-1000 genome-equivalent copies per cell) and reached up to 10(3)-10(7) genome-equivalent copies per serum ml. The molecular mechanisms of the long virus persistence without definite signs of destruction should be studied.


pmid: 1965582
title: Some immune responses in cattle exposed to Mycobacterium paratuberculosis after injection with modified-live bovine viral diarrhea virus vaccine
abstract: Delayed-type hypersensitivity responses to Mycobacterium paratuberculosis purified protein derivative (PPD) were decreased in cows experimentally exposed to M. paratuberculosis 7 days after exposure to a modified-live bovine viral diarrhea virus (ML-BVDV) vaccine. In vitro lymphocyte blastogenic responses to phytohemagglutinin were decreased in each of 3 cows 7 days after exposure to ML-BVDV vaccine. Also, decreased lymphocyte blastogenic responses to M. paratuberculosis PPD were observed in cultures of 2 of 3 cows 7 days after exposure to ML-BVDV vaccine. No significant differences in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay reactions were detected in sera of M. paratuberculosis-infected cattle collected before and at 4 and 12 weeks after exposure to ML-BVDV vaccine.


pmid: 20518342
title: [Sequence analysis, expression and antigenicity detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus NS3 gene]
abstract: In this study, we cloned the NS3 gene from bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) VEDEVAC strain. The result showed that the average P-distance of Pestivirus NS3 amino acid sequence was 0.07 and the VEDEVAC strain was classified to BVDV type 1. Using pET-30a(+) as vector and Escherichia coli Rosetta (DE3) as host, we obtained purified recombinant NS3 protein by Ni-NTA affinity chromatography. Western blotting analysis demonstrated that both BVDV positive serum and classical swine fever virus (CSFV) positive serum were able to recognize the recombinant NS3 protein. Indirect-ELISA assay indicated that the protein could be used as detection antigen.


pmid: 10446643
title: Investigation of the immunological properties of the bovine viral diarrhea virus protein NS3 expressed by an adenovirus vector in mice
abstract: Two replication-defective human adenovirus recombinants encoding the NS3 protein (p80) of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) under the control of a modified adenovirus major later promoter (BM5), rAdBM5/NS3, and human cytomegalovirus promoter (CMV5), rAdCMV5/NS3, were constructed. These two recombinant adenoviruses were tested for their expression of the NS3 protein in vitro in three different cell lines and also in vivo for the induction of BVDV-specific immune responses in mice. The recombinant adenoviruses containing two different promoters induced different levels of humoral responses to the NS3 protein. The rAdBM5/NS3 was used to vaccinate mice in order to evaluate the ability of the NS3 protein in the induction of cellular immune responses. The rAdBM5/NS3 did not cause a stimulation of cell proliferation but caused a very strong increase in production of IFN-gamma in murine mononuclear cells stimulated in vivo by BVDV strains of genotype 1 and 2.


pmid: 8581862
title: Diagnosis of bovine viral diarrhea virus infections
abstract: Because of complex pathogenesis and insidious nature of BVDV infections, the laboratory diagnosis is an essential component of developing measures for the control and prevention of BVDV infections. The positive isolation of BVDV from animal submissions or from aborted fetuses should provide a strong indication for further epidemiologic investigations within the identified infected herds. In these situations, the ultimate goal should be the establishment of sound control and prevention methods by prevention of any potential exposure to BVDV (i.e., removal of PI animals and preventing the introduction of infected animals) and by protecting animals by using effective vaccination programs.


pmid: 8384395
title: Clinical, virological and serological findings after intranasal inoculation of pigs with bovine viral diarrhoea virus and subsequent intranasal challenge with hog cholera virus
abstract: Five groups of weaner pigs were intranasally inoculated with constant doses of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) strain OSLOSS/2482. Four weeks post primary inoculation (p.p.i.) the animals were intranasally challenged with decreasing doses of hog cholera virus (HCV) strain Alfort/187. Clinical signs were not observed apart from a short febrile period (2 days, > 40 degrees C) in one animal. Another animal died intercurrently without showing any pathological signs. Virus isolation from leucocyte samples taken regularly during one week post challenge detected HC viraemia in most animals that had received HCV doses > 100 TCID50 per animal. Using monoclonal antibody (mab) analysis all isolates obtained were proven to be HCV. Serological investigations using the virus neutralization test (VNT) yielded HC neutralizing antibodies in all groups with higher titres in those animals having received HCV doses > 100 TCID50. However, HCV specific neutralizing antibodies never exceeded the BVDV antibody titre. A complex trapping blocking (CTB) ELISA applying a HCV specific mab detected HCV specific antibodies in animals that had gone through HC viraemia while discriminating BVDV specific antibodies.


pmid: 187565
title: Natural infection of pigs with bovine viral diarrhea virus and its differential diagnosis from hog cholera
abstract: Natural infection of pigs with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) through contact with infected cattle has caused problems in diagnosing hog cholera (HC). Low cross-reacting serum antibody titers against HC caused by BVDV infection were found in clinically normal pigs as well as those suspected of having HC. Bovine viral diarrhea virus was isolated from specimen tissues and initially identified as HC virus (HCV), using the fluorescent antibody cell culture technique. Additional cell cultures, as well as pig and calf trials, were necessary to identify it as BVDV. The isolate caused clinical signs of illness in the calves, whereas the pigs remained healthy. Bovine viral diarrhea virus may be detected in tissue sections or isolated in cell cultures and confirmed as HCV, using the HC fluorescent antibody conjugate. Laboratories performing the neutralization test for HC should use discretion when interpreting HC titers unless BVD titers are determined on the same serums.


pmid: 22027186
title: Establishing a pilot bovine viral diarrhoea virus eradication scheme in Somerset
abstract: Beginning in April 2006, 41 farms were recruited onto a pilot Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) eradication programme across the south of England with the majority of study herds concentrated in Somerset. Each herd was assessed and where relevant cleared of persistently infected (PI) animals. Seven farms dropped out before whole herd screening could be performed. Of the remaining 34 farms, 20 (59 per cent) were classified as infected although two of these were initially misclassified as BVDV-free. Over the course of three years, 61 PIs were identified across 16 of the 20 infected farms. 72 per cent of PIs indentified on the first herd test were below two years of age. PI prevalence ranged from 0.2 to 3.1 per cent of infected herds and was highest in herds that did not vaccinate. By the end of 2009, 24/34 (71 per cent) of study farms were BVDV-free while 10 (29 per cent) remained infected.


pmid: 21619897
title: Acridine derivatives as anti-BVDV agents
abstract: Twenty-six 9-aminoacridine derivatives were evaluated in cell-based assays for cytotoxicity and antiviral activity against a panel of 10 RNA and DNA viruses. While seven compounds (9, 10, 14, 19, 21, 22, 24) did not affect any virus and two (6, 11) were moderately active against CVB-5 or Reo-1, 17 compounds exhibited a marked specific activity against BVDV, prototype of pestiviruses which are responsible for severe diseases of livestock. Most anti-BVDV agents showed EC(50) values in the range 0.1-8 μM, thus comparing favorably with the reference drugs ribavirine and NM 108. Some compounds, particularly those bearing a quinolizidinylalkyl side chain, displayed pronounced cytotoxicity. Further studies are warranted in order to achieve still better anti-BVDV agents, and to explore the potential antiproliferative activity of this kind of compounds.


pmid: 16727029
title: An outbreak of fetal and neonatal losses associated with the diagnosis of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: A severe outbreak of dairy herd pregnancy wastage was investigated. At the beginning of the outbreak, a total of 121 lactating cattle were pregnant and considered to be at risk. Overall, 33.1% of the population at risk aborted, while 25.6% gave birth to calves that either died during the early neonatal period or demonstrated signs compatible with congenital defects (abnormal births). A laboratory diagnosis of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection was made in two surviving neonatal calves with symptoms of cerebellar hypoplasia and blindness. An on-farm investigation was conducted to determine if the abortions and abnormal births were associated with BVDV infection. The rate of abortions versus abnormal births was biphasic when graphed by the date of occurrence. The cases of abortion occurred early in the outbreak and were followed by the neonatal losses. Within the population at risk, the mean values for gestational age at the beginning of the outbreak were different between the subpopulations described by gestational outcome. The outcome of each pregnancy that existed at the beginning of the outbreak was determined. Classifications included normal birth (birth of a normal calf), abnormal birth (a neonatal loss of the type described above), abortion, and continued gestation (normal, uncompleted pregnancy). The average gestational age at the time of the index case (the first cases of pregnancy wastage) for these four pregnancy outcome classfications was 142.0, 106.2, 86.7 and 31.3 days, respectively. Reasons for assuming that this outbreak was related to BVDV are discussed.


pmid: 15225995
title: Infectivity of bovine viral diarrhea virus associated with in vivo-derived bovine embryos
abstract: Early research indicated that bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) would not adhere to zona pellucida-intact (ZP-I), in vivo-derived bovine embryos. However, in a recent study, viral association of BVDV and in vivo-derived embryos was demonstrated. These findings raised questions regarding the infectivity of the embryo-associated virus. The objectives of this study were to evaluate the infectivity of BVDV associated with in vivo-derived bovine embryos through utilization of primary cultures of uterine tubal cells (UTC) as an in vitro model of the uterine environment and to determine if washing procedures, including trypsin treatment, were adequate to remove virus from in vivo-derived embryos. One hundred and nine ZP-I morulae and blastocysts (MB) and 77 non-fertile and degenerated (NFD) ova were collected on day 7 from 34, BVDV-negative, superovulated cows. After collection, all MB and NFD ova were washed according to International Embryo Transfer Society (IETS) standards and exposed for 2h to approximately 10(6) cell culture infective doses (50% endpoint) per milliliter of viral strain SD-1. Following exposure, some groups of <10 MB or NFD ova were washed in accordance with IETS standards. In addition, an equivalent number of MB and NFD ova were subjected to IETS standards for trypsin treatment. Subsequently, NFD ova were immediately sonicated and sonicate fluids were assayed for presence of virus, while individual and groups of MB were placed in microdrops containing primary cultures of UTCs and incubated. After 3 days, embryos, media, and UTCs were harvested from each microdrop and assayed for BVDV. Virus was detected in the sonicate fluids of 56 and 43% of the groups of NFD ova that were washed and trypsin-treated, respectively. After 3 days of microdrop culture, virus was not detected in media or sonicate fluids from any individual or groups of MB, regardless of treatment. However, virus was detected in a proportion of UTC that were co-cultured with washed groups of MB (30%), washed individual MB (9%) and trypsin treated individual MB (9%), but no virus was detected in the UTC associated with groups of trypsin-treated embryos. In conclusion, virus associated with developing embryos was infective for permissive cells. Further, the quantity of virus associated with a proportion of individual embryos (both washed and trypsin treated) was sufficient to infect the UTC. In light of these results, an attempt should be made to determine if the quantity of a high-affinity isolate of BVDV associated with an individual embryo would infect recipients via the intrauterine route.


pmid: 15005546
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea, bovine herpesvirus and parainfluenza-3 virus infection in three cattle herds in Egypt in 2000
abstract: This study reported field outbreaks of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection, either alone or mixed with bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1) and/or parainfluenza-3 virus (PI-3V) in Egypt during 2000. In Lower Egypt, young calves in three cattle herds in El-Minufiya Province, El-Fayoum Province and in governmental quarantine in El-Behira Province, showed symptoms of enteritis, either alone or accompanied by respiratory manifestations. The affected herds were visited and the diseased animals were clinically examined. Many epidemiological aspects, such as morbidities, mortalities and case fatalities, as well as the abortive rate, were calculated. Ethylenediamine tetra-acetic acid-blood samples, sterile nasal swabs and serum samples were obtained for virological and serological diagnosis. The laboratory investigations revealed that the main cause of calf mortalities in the three herds was infection with BVDV, either alone, as on the El-Minufiya farm, or mixed with PI-3V, as on the El-Fayoum farm, or mixed with both BHV-1 and PI-3V, as in the herd in governmental quarantine in El-Behira Province. A total of nine dead calves from the three herds were submitted for thorough post-mortem examination. Tissue samples from recently dead calves were obtained for immunohistochemical and histopathological studies. The most prominent histopathological findings were massive degeneration, necrosis and erosions of the lining epithelium of the alimentary tract. Most of the lymphoreticular organs were depleted of lymphocytes. In pneumonic cases, bronchopneumonia and atypical interstitial pneumonia were evident. The present study suggested that the immunosuppressive effect of BVDV had predisposed the animals to secondary infection with BHV-1 and PI-3V. This study concluded that concurrent infection with BVDV, BHV-1 and PI-3V should be considered as one of the infectious causes of pneumoenteritis and, subsequently, the high morbidities and mortalities among young calves in Egypt. Preventive and control measures against these infectious agents should therefore be adopted. All animals imported into Egypt should be free from BVDV infection. Control programmes for the detection and removal of BVDV-persistent cattle should be applied in cattle herds all over the country.


pmid: 2178905
title: Antigenic comparisons of hog cholera virus isolates from Europe, America and Asia using monoclonal antibodies
abstract: Nineteen monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) with specificity for hog cholera virus (HCV) were prepared. They were used in an immune binding (peroxidase linked) assay to determine the reaction patterns of HCV isolates from Europe, Brazil, USA, Japan and Malaysia, as well as laboratory reference strains of the virus. A further panel of 17 MAbs raised against bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was included in the study, together with 5 MAbs raised against a non-HCV pestivirus of porcine origin. All the MAbs were also tested against representative strains of BVDV and border disease virus. Six MAbs were HCV-specific, reacting with all isolates of HCV and none of the ruminant viruses. Among the other HCV MAbs geographical variation in reaction patterns was observed. There was evidence of antigenic distinction between recent European isolates, and archive material originally isolated more than 10 years ago.


pmid: 16725707
title: Embryo transfer as a means of controlling the transmission of viral infections. I. The in vitro exposure of preimplantation bovine embryos to akabane, bluetongue and bovine viral diarrhea viruses
abstract: As part of a program to study the feasibility of using embryo transfer to control disease, initial experiments were undertaken to determine the virus susceptibility of early embryos. Two hundred and ninety-three preimplantation bovine embryos (16-cell to blastocyst stage) were exposed to either akabane virus (AV), bluetongue virus (BTV) or bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Two hundred and thirty-seven of these embryos were then cultured for 24-48 hours in order to determine whether the virus had any effect on embryonic development and to allow viral replication to occur. No infectious virus was isolated from any of the embryos and the in vitro development of virus exposed embryos proceeded normally. In addition, twenty-nine eggs/embryos isolated from donors that were seropositive to BVDV were found to be uninfected with this virus.


pmid: 24352225
title: Stability of Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 nucleic acid in fetal bovine samples stored under different conditions
abstract: Infection of pregnant cattle with both species of Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) can result in reproductive disease that includes fetal reabsorption, mummification, abortion, stillbirths, congenital defects affecting structural, neural, reproductive, and immune systems, and the birth of calves persistently infected with BVDV. Accurate diagnosis of BVDV-associated reproductive disease is important to control BVDV at the production unit level and assessment of the cost of BVDV infections in support of BVDV control programs. The purpose of the current study was to examine the stability of viral nucleic acid in fetal tissues exposed to different conditions, as measured by detection by polymerase chain reaction. Five different types of fetal tissue, including brain, skin and muscle, ear, and 2 different pooled organ samples, were subjected to conditions that mimicked those that might exist for samples collected after abortions in production settings or possible storage conditions after collection and prior to testing. In addition, tissues were archived for 36 months at -20°C and then retested, to mimic conditions that might occur in the case of retrospective surveillance studies. Brain tissue showed the highest stability under the conditions tested. The impact of fecal contamination was increased following archiving in all tissue types suggesting that, for long-term storage, effort should be made to reduce environmental contaminants before archiving.


pmid: 9229725
title: [Bovine diarrhea virus: an update]
abstract: Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) is a pathogen of cattle, member of the family Flaviviridae, genus pestivirus, which also includes Classical Swine Fever Virus (CSFV, or hog cholera virus), and Border Disease Virus of sheep (BDV). It causes important economical losses associated mainly with reproductive failure. Pestiviruses are small enveloped viruses, with a diameter of about 40 nm. The nucleocapsid is probably icosahedral . The genome consists of a single stranded positive RNA, encoding approximately 430 kD of proteic product. Genetic expression consists of the synthesis of a polyprotein which is co- and post-translationally processed. According to its behavior "in vitro" two biotypes can be distinguished: non cytopathic (ncp) and cytopathic (cp), most probably derived from the ncp through mutations and/or recombination. BVDV is able to cross the placenta and infect the fetus, causing a variety of problems, from fetal death to the birth of a persistently infected (P) calf, according to the fetal age at the time of infection. PI animals are immunotolerant to the virus and shed it in all secretions. Only the ncp biotype has been isolated from PI animals. The superinfection of a PI animal with a cp strain causes mucosal disease, always fatal. Outbreaks of a severe, sometimes hemorrhagic disease, caused by ncp BVDV, have occurred in Canada and USA since 1993. Genomic and serological differences between the "traditional" strains and the viruses isolated from these outbreaks led to the division of BVDV in subtypes I and II, both including cp and ncp strains. Analyses of the non coding 5'-UTR zone of the genome of pestiviruses from different species (bovine, ovine, porcine) suggest that there are at least 3 genotypes within the genus. A new classification of these viruses, based on genomic sequence instead of species of origin, has been proposed. Genomic heterogeneity exists in the BVDV genome, which presents 3 hypervariable zones, 2 of them in the major neutralizing protein. In Argentina prevalence of BVDV antibodies in cattle population is 70%, and the prevalence of persistent infections is around 1%.


pmid: 15225995
title: Infectivity of bovine viral diarrhea virus associated with in vivo-derived bovine embryos
abstract: Early research indicated that bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) would not adhere to zona pellucida-intact (ZP-I), in vivo-derived bovine embryos. However, in a recent study, viral association of BVDV and in vivo-derived embryos was demonstrated. These findings raised questions regarding the infectivity of the embryo-associated virus. The objectives of this study were to evaluate the infectivity of BVDV associated with in vivo-derived bovine embryos through utilization of primary cultures of uterine tubal cells (UTC) as an in vitro model of the uterine environment and to determine if washing procedures, including trypsin treatment, were adequate to remove virus from in vivo-derived embryos. One hundred and nine ZP-I morulae and blastocysts (MB) and 77 non-fertile and degenerated (NFD) ova were collected on day 7 from 34, BVDV-negative, superovulated cows. After collection, all MB and NFD ova were washed according to International Embryo Transfer Society (IETS) standards and exposed for 2h to approximately 10(6) cell culture infective doses (50% endpoint) per milliliter of viral strain SD-1. Following exposure, some groups of <10 MB or NFD ova were washed in accordance with IETS standards. In addition, an equivalent number of MB and NFD ova were subjected to IETS standards for trypsin treatment. Subsequently, NFD ova were immediately sonicated and sonicate fluids were assayed for presence of virus, while individual and groups of MB were placed in microdrops containing primary cultures of UTCs and incubated. After 3 days, embryos, media, and UTCs were harvested from each microdrop and assayed for BVDV. Virus was detected in the sonicate fluids of 56 and 43% of the groups of NFD ova that were washed and trypsin-treated, respectively. After 3 days of microdrop culture, virus was not detected in media or sonicate fluids from any individual or groups of MB, regardless of treatment. However, virus was detected in a proportion of UTC that were co-cultured with washed groups of MB (30%), washed individual MB (9%) and trypsin treated individual MB (9%), but no virus was detected in the UTC associated with groups of trypsin-treated embryos. In conclusion, virus associated with developing embryos was infective for permissive cells. Further, the quantity of virus associated with a proportion of individual embryos (both washed and trypsin treated) was sufficient to infect the UTC. In light of these results, an attempt should be made to determine if the quantity of a high-affinity isolate of BVDV associated with an individual embryo would infect recipients via the intrauterine route.


pmid: 15005546
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea, bovine herpesvirus and parainfluenza-3 virus infection in three cattle herds in Egypt in 2000
abstract: This study reported field outbreaks of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection, either alone or mixed with bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1) and/or parainfluenza-3 virus (PI-3V) in Egypt during 2000. In Lower Egypt, young calves in three cattle herds in El-Minufiya Province, El-Fayoum Province and in governmental quarantine in El-Behira Province, showed symptoms of enteritis, either alone or accompanied by respiratory manifestations. The affected herds were visited and the diseased animals were clinically examined. Many epidemiological aspects, such as morbidities, mortalities and case fatalities, as well as the abortive rate, were calculated. Ethylenediamine tetra-acetic acid-blood samples, sterile nasal swabs and serum samples were obtained for virological and serological diagnosis. The laboratory investigations revealed that the main cause of calf mortalities in the three herds was infection with BVDV, either alone, as on the El-Minufiya farm, or mixed with PI-3V, as on the El-Fayoum farm, or mixed with both BHV-1 and PI-3V, as in the herd in governmental quarantine in El-Behira Province. A total of nine dead calves from the three herds were submitted for thorough post-mortem examination. Tissue samples from recently dead calves were obtained for immunohistochemical and histopathological studies. The most prominent histopathological findings were massive degeneration, necrosis and erosions of the lining epithelium of the alimentary tract. Most of the lymphoreticular organs were depleted of lymphocytes. In pneumonic cases, bronchopneumonia and atypical interstitial pneumonia were evident. The present study suggested that the immunosuppressive effect of BVDV had predisposed the animals to secondary infection with BHV-1 and PI-3V. This study concluded that concurrent infection with BVDV, BHV-1 and PI-3V should be considered as one of the infectious causes of pneumoenteritis and, subsequently, the high morbidities and mortalities among young calves in Egypt. Preventive and control measures against these infectious agents should therefore be adopted. All animals imported into Egypt should be free from BVDV infection. Control programmes for the detection and removal of BVDV-persistent cattle should be applied in cattle herds all over the country.


pmid: 11900844
title: A single amino acid is critical for the expression of B-cell epitopes on the helicase domain of the pestivirus NS3 protein
abstract: Truncated NS3 proteins, expressed by recombinant baculoviruses, were used to investigate the location of conserved B-cell epitopes on this non-structural bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) protein. A goat anti-pestivirus antiserum, and a panel of anti-NS3 monoclonal antibodies, including the BVDV-1 specific antibody P1D8, were used to verify the presence or absence of the epitopes. Interestingly, the monoclonal antibodies reacted only with the truncated protein encompassing the helicase domain of NS3. Expression of the B-cell epitopes was dependent on, but not within, a 57 amino acid sequence at the carboxy-terminal end of this protein, supporting observations that these conserved epitopes are conformational in nature. A comparison of deduced amino acid sequences of the helicase domain from BVDV-1, BVDV-2, BDV and CSFV isolates highlighted a single amino acid that appeared to be unique to P1D8-reactive BVDV-1 isolates. Site-directed mutagenesis studies confirmed that this amino acid is critical for the expression of the BVDV-1 specific NS3 epitope recognised by the P1D8 monoclonal antibody. Surprisingly, the amino acid was also important for an epitope recognised by two group-specific monoclonal antibodies, P1H11 and P4A11. Protein modelling studies, based on the structure of the hepatitis C NS3 helicase domain, indicated that this amino acid occupies a prominent position on the surface of the protein.


pmid: 22554468
title: Immunocompetent truncated E2 glycoprotein of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) expressed in Nicotiana tabacum plants: a candidate antigen for new generation of veterinary vaccines
abstract: The bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is the etiological agent responsible for a wide spectrum of clinical diseases in cattle. The glycoprotein E2 is the major envelope protein of this virus and the strongest inductor of the immune response. There are several available commercial vaccines against bovine viral diarrhea (BVD), which show irregular performances. Here, we report the use of tobacco plants as an alternative productive platform for the expression of the truncated version of E2 glycoprotein (tE2) from the BVDV. The tE2 sequence, lacking the transmembrane domain, was cloned into the pK7WG2 Agrobacterium binary vector. The construct also carried the 2S2 Arabidopsis thaliana signal for directing the protein into the plant secretory pathway, the Kozak sequence, an hexa-histidine tag to facilitate protein purification and the KDEL endoplasmic reticulum retention signal. The resulting plasmid (pK-2S2-tE2-His-KDEL) was introduced into Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain EHA101 by electroporation. The transformed A. tumefaciens was then used to express tE2 in leaves of Nicotiana tabacum plants. Western blot and ELISA using specific monoclonal antibodies confirmed the presence of the recombinant tE2 protein in plant extracts. An estimated amount of 20 μg of tE2 per gram of fresh leaves was regularly obtained with this plant system. Injection of guinea pigs with plant extracts containing 20 μg of rtE2 induced the production of BVDV specific antibodies at equal or higher levels than those induced by whole virus vaccines. This is the first report of the production of an immunocompetent tE2 in N. tabacum plants, having the advantage to be free of any eventual animal contaminant.


pmid: 24388627
title: Antigenic variability in bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolates from alpaca (Vicugna pacos), llama (Lama glama) and bovines in Chile
abstract: Llamas and alpacas are domesticated South American camelids (SACs) important to ancestral population in the Altiplano region, and to different communities where they have been introduced worldwide. These ungulates have shown to be susceptible to several livestock viral pathogens such as members of the Pestivirus genus and mainly to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Seventeen Chilean BVDV isolates were analyzed by serum cross neutralization with samples obtained from five llama, six alpacas, three bovines, plus three reference strains belonging to different subgroups and genotypes. The objective was to describe antigenic differences and similarities among them. Antigenic comparison showed significant differences between different subgroups. Consequently, antigenic similarities were observed among isolates belonging to the same subgroup and also between isolates from different animal species belonging the same subgroup. Among the analyzed samples, one pair of 1b subgroup isolates showed significant antigenic differences. On the other hand, one pair of isolates from different subgroups (1b and 1j) shared antigenic similarities indicating antigenic relatedness. This study shows for the first time the presence of antigenic differences within BVDV 1b subgroup and antigenic similarities within 1j subgroup isolates, demonstrating that genetic differences within BVDV subgroups do not necessary corresponds to differences on antigenicity.


pmid: 24011475
title: A study of the effectiveness of a needle-free injection device compared with a needle and syringe used to vaccinate calves against bovine viral diarrhea and infectious bovine rhinotracheitis viruses
abstract: The aim of this study was to compare the effectiveness of a needle-free injection device (NF) with a needle and syringe (NS) when used to vaccinate calves against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBRV). The study was conducted in two independent phases. Ninety-six crossbred beef calves were vaccinated in the spring and 98 beef calves in the autumn. The calves were vaccinated using a NF or NS at 2 months of age (day 0) and again on day 119, with a modified-live virus vaccine containing IBRV, BVDV (types 1 and 2), parainfluenza-3 virus, and bovine respiratory syncytial virus. In each herd 10 calves were left unvaccinated to determine whether exposure to either BVDV or IBRV occurred. Visible vaccine residue at the surface of the skin/hair was apparent immediately following vaccination with NF in 30% of the spring-born calves following both the primary and booster vaccination. In the autumn, visible vaccine residues occurred in 19% and 8% of NF-vaccinated calves following the primary and booster vaccination. Post-vaccination skin reactions recorded on days 21, 42, 119 and 140 occurred with greater frequency in NF-vaccinated calves than NS-vaccinated ones. Blood samples were collected on days 0, 21, 42, 119, and 140 and tested for antibodies to BVDV and IBRV. Vaccination technique had no significant effect on BVDV or IBRV antibody concentrations at any time point. NF was as effective as NS vaccination in eliciting BVDV and IBRV antibody responses.


pmid: 35215904
title: Lack of Fetal Protection against Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus in a Vaccinated Heifer
abstract: The aim of the report was to present the circulation of BVDV (bovine viral diarrhea virus) in the cattle population and determine the cause of the failure of vaccination failure leading to the birth of the PI (persistently infected) calf. The case study was carried out at the BVDV-free animal breeding center and cattle farm, where the vaccination program against BVDV was implemented in 2012, and each newly introduced animal was serologically and virologically tested for BVDV. In this case, a blood sample was taken from a 9-month-old breeding bull. Positive RT-PCR and negative ELISA serology results were obtained. The tests were repeated at 2-week intervals, and the results confirmed the presence of the virus and the absence of specific antibodies, i.e., persistent infection. Additionally, sequencing and phylogenetic analysis were performed, and the BVDV-1d subgenotype was detected. The results of this study showed that pregnant heifers and cows that are vaccinated multiple times with the killed vaccine containing BVDV-1a may not be fully protected against infection with other subgenotypes of BVDV, including their fetuses, which can become PI calves.


pmid: 29408654
title: The construction of recombinant Lactobacillus casei expressing BVDV E2 protein and its immune response in mice
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is the etiological agent of BVD causes substantial economic losses and endemic in world-wide cattle population. Mucosal immunity plays an important role in protection against BVDV infection and Lactobacillus casei is believed as an excellent live vaccine vector for expressing foreign genes. In this study, we have constructed a novel recombinant L. casei/pELX1-E2 strain expressing the most immunogenic E2 antigen of BVDV; using growth phage dependent surface expression system pELX1. The expression of E2 protein was verified by SDS-PAGE, Western blotting, and Immunofluorescence microscopic analysis. The immune responses triggered by the E2 producing recombinant L. casei were evaluated in BALB/c mice revealed that oral and intranasal (IN) administration of the recombinant strain was able to induce a significantly higher level of specific anti-E2 mucosal IgA and serum IgG as well as the greater level of cellular response by IFN-γ and IL-12 than those of intramuscular (IM) and control groups of mice. However, IN inoculation was found the most potent route of immunization. The ability of the recombinant strain to induce serum neutralizing antibody against BVDV and reduced viral load after viral challenge indicated better protection of BVDV infection. Therefore, this recombinant L. casei expressing E2 could be a safe and promising mucosal vaccine candidate against BVD.


pmid: 27038195
title: The role of herpesviruses (BoHV-1 and BoHV-4) and pestiviruses (BVDV and BDV) in ruminant abortion cases in western Turkey
abstract: The economic impact of abortions in ruminant breeders is one of the biggest problems in livestock. Of the infectious agents, viruses, especially herpesviruses and pestiviruses, are the most important causative agents of abortion in ruminants. In the present study, the role of herpesviruses (bovine herpesvirus-1 (BoHV-1), bovine herpesvirus-4 (BoHV-4)) and pestiviruses (bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), border disease virus (BDV)) was investigated in cases of ruminant abortion between 2007 and 2015 in western Turkey. Out of 81 aborted fetal samples (60 calves, 19 lambs, and 2 kids), 42 were positive, which included 31 calves, 9 lambs, and 2 goats; 39 aborted fetal samples were negative for the pestivirus antigen ELISA. BoHV-1 antigen ELISA was positive in 3 cases which included 2 calves and 1 lamb; the remainder 78 cases were negative. Pestivirus and BoHV-1 were positive in 51.85 and 3.70 %, respectively, of the samples. According to PCR analysis, BoHV-4 was not encountered in any of the tested samples. In one of the calf fetus samples, both BVDV and BoHV-1 were positive; in one of the lamb fetus samples, BoHV-1 was positive. There was a much higher level of pestivirus antigen than the other viral agents evaluated in the study (p < 0.0001). The results of this study indicate that pestiviruses are a common viral cause of ruminant abortions in the examined area.


pmid: 24511819
title: [Bovine viral diarrhea (BVD): from biology to control]
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is endemic worldwide. Together with classical swine fever and border disease viruses, it belongs to the genus Pestivirus of the family Flaviviridae. Most infections with BVDV take a transient, acute, course. Only rarely BVDV persists in its hosts. Due to the early time point of infection in utero, persistently infected (PI) animals are immunotolerant to the infecting non-cytopathic BVDV. In such animals the virus may mutate to a cytopathic biotype, causing lethal mucosal disease. In BVD-endemic regions, approximately 1% of the animals are PI. Removal of all PI animals leads to extinction of BVD. This approach to BVD eradication has been vindicated in Scandinavia. Following the same principles, regional and country-wide eradication programs are run in different parts of the world. These programs differ in the way PI animals are detected and in the role of vaccines. The Scandinavian two-step method of detecting PI animals is based on (i) the high level of seroprevalence in herds where PI animals are present and (ii) on testing all animals for virus in such herds. However, the high average herd seroprevalence in Switzerland made it impossible to define a reasonable threshold for virus testing. Therefore, all animals were directly tested for virus in the year 2008 and all newborn calves until the end of 2012, when the PI prevalence had dropped to 0.02%. Vaccination remains prohibited. Since 2013, surveillance for BVD is accomplished by serology. As a unique consequence of eradication, over 7500 viral strains are available to us for genetic studies.


pmid: 21514324
title: Species characterization in the genus Pestivirus according to palindromic nucleotide substitutions in the 5'-untranslated region
abstract: The palindromic nucleotide substitutions (PNS) at the three variable loci (V1, V2 and V3) in the 5'-untranslated region (UTR) of the Pestivirus genome have been considered for taxonomical segregation of the species, through the evaluation of 534 strains. On the basis of qualitative and quantitative secondary structure characteristics, species have been identified within the genus, determining genetic distances between species isolates, clarifying borderline and multirelated sequences, and characterizing and clustering the Pestivirus strains showing unexpected genomic sequences. Nine genomic groups have been identified: the species Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1), Bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 (BVDV-2), Border disease virus (BDV) and Classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and the tentative species Pronghorn, Giraffe, Bovine viral diarrhea virus 3 (BVDV-3) (HoBi group), Border disease virus 2 (BDV-2) (Italian small ruminant isolates) and Bungowannah. Palindromic positions have been characterized according to changes in nucleotide base-pairs identifying low variable positions (LVP) including base-pairs present in less than 80% of the genus. The determination of divergence between single strain sequences or genetic groups was obtained easily by comparing base-pairing combinations from aligned secondary structures. This provided clear information such as the level of heterogeneity within a species, the relatedness between species, or facilitating the characterization and clustering of specific strains. The BVDV-1 and BDV species resulted heterogeneous, showing isolates located on a borderline in the species. Within the BVDV-2 species, two main genogroups were identified, with strains showing common sequence characteristics to both groups (multirelated strains). They could be allocated correctly by quantitative analysis. Similarly, the relation between CSFV and BDV species appeared very clearly. Also in this case, ambiguous strain sequences could be clustered in the species showing the lowest divergence values. In conclusion, the proposed taxonomical procedure is based on the evaluation of only the strategic and highly conserved genome regions in the 5'-UTR. Furthermore, the application of quantitative analytical procedure allowed for a better determination of relation among species.


pmid: 21257418
title: Eradication programme for bovine viral diarrhoea virus in Orkney 2001 to 2008
abstract: The strategies used and the results obtained in Orkney's bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) eradication programme over eight years (2001 to 2008) are presented and discussed. The venture was undertaken by local veterinary practices and the Orkney Livestock Association (OLA) with the financial support of the Orkney Islands Council. Participation is voluntary; the programme comprises screening of youngstock, a whole-herd test if required, elimination of persistently infected animals and strict biosecurity measures and/or vaccination. BVDV-free herds are certified, and certification is updated annually by retesting the youngstock. The programme aims to minimise economic losses, thereby increasing the competitiveness of the Orcadian cattle industry and to improve animal health and welfare by eliminating virus circulation. Information from databases of the Scottish Agricultural College, Biobest Laboratories and OLA show that despite a significant reduction in the overall prevalence of BVDV on Orkney during the initial stages of the eradication programme, there has been little progress made since 2006 and that some difficulties have been encountered, with herd BVDV breakdowns following initial eradication. These results highlight the need for continued motivation of farmers, strict application of biosecurity measures and/or systematic vaccination of all seronegative breeding animals.


pmid: 19327808
title: A replicon trans-packaging system reveals the requirement of nonstructural proteins for the assembly of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) virion
abstract: A selective trans-packaging system was developed to produce and isolate bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) pseudo-particles with complementing reporter replicons and their packaging proteins expressed in trans with recombinant vaccinia virus. The encapsidation of replicon rNS3-5B was dependent not only on the in trans expression of structural proteins C, E(rns), E1 and E2, but also the nonstructural proteins, p7 and contiguous precursor NS2-3-4A. Nonstructural p7, NS4B, NS5A or NS5B could be expressed in cis and in trans with precursor NS2-3-4A without significantly affecting virion assembly efficiency. NS2-3-4A was identified as an in trans functional precursor in virion assembly. BVDV genomes with mutant NS5B, which did not undergo active replication, were packaged 5-fold less efficiently than the intact genomes demonstrating the importance of replication in virion packaging. These results suggest that genome replication and assembly are closely associated, consistent with a model in which these two steps are coupled for maximum efficiency.


pmid: 17905447
title: Induction of virus-neutralizing antibodies by immunization with Rachiplusia nu per os infected with a recombinant baculovirus expressing the E2 glycoprotein of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: This work describes the development of a novel protein expression system based on Rachiplusia nu larvae for the production of the recombinant E2 protein to be used as a vaccine candidate against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). A recombinant baculovirus (Ac-E2pol+) bearing the E2 glycoprotein coding sequence of BVDV was obtained. Fourth-instar R. nu larvae were infected orally with recombinant polyhedra and the expression of E2 protein was confirmed by immunoblot. In order to test the recombinant product as a vaccine candidate, an immunization assay was performed and the neutralizing humoral immune response against BVDV NADL strain was evaluated. Mice vaccinated with Ac-E2pol+ extracts of per os infected larvae developed a neutralizing antibody titer of 3.16 after the administration of three doses of the immunogen. This report demonstrates the efficacy of per os infected larval extracts as a BVDV recombinant immunogen, which constitutes an easier and economic approach for producing recombinant antigens.


pmid: 1651719
title: Expression of the p80 region of bovine viral diarrhea virus and identification of specific antibodies to this recombinant protein in bovine sera
abstract: A 917-base pair segment of the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) genome encoding part of the p80 region was cloned into plasmid Gex-2T expression vector for expression as a fusion protein with glutathione-S-transferase (GST). When the p80 and GST sequences were in the same reading frames, the resulting GST-p80 fusion protein had a molecular mass of 58 kilodaltons (kDa) in SDS-PAGE. Extracts of control E. coli carrying only the vector plasmid (Gex-2T) did not contain this new 58-kDa protein band. Mouse monoclonal antibody specific to BVDV-p80 recognized this recombinant protein. Seventy cattle sera that had an SN titer (to TGAC isolate of cytopathic BVDV) greater than 1:8 reacted with this recombinant protein in Western blots. Of 28 cattle sera that had SN titers less than or equal to 1:8, only one serum tested positive on Western blots.


pmid: 21667075
title: Seroepidemiological study of bovine respiratory viruses (BRSV, BoHV-1, PI-3V, BVDV, and BAV-3) in dairy cattle in central region of Iran (Esfahan province)
abstract: Respiratory diseases in calves are responsible for major economic losses in both beef and dairy production. Several viruses, such as bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), bovine herpes virus-1 (BoHV-1), bovine parainfluenza virus-3 (BPI-3V), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and bovine adenoviruses (BAV), are detected in most clinical cases with respiratory signs. The aim of this study is to define seroprevalences of five major viral causes of bovine respiratory infections in cattle in central region of Iran (Esfahan province). The population targeted was 642 dairy cows (Holstein-Friesian) from 25 farms. Samples of blood serum from female cattle were examined. Sera were tested by commercial ELISA kits to detect antibody against BRSV, BoHV-1, BPI-3V, BVDV, and BAV-3. The results were analyzed by Chi-square test. In the present study, seroprevalences of BRSV, BoHV-1, PI3V, BVDV, and BAV-3 were 51.1%, 72%, 84.4%, 49.2%, and 55.6%, respectively. The present study shows that infections of bovine respiratory viruses are very common in cattle in Esfahan.


pmid: 15994806
title: Essential and nonessential elements in the 3' nontranslated region of Bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The 3' nontranslated region (NTR) of the pestivirus Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a close relative of human Hepatitis C virus, consists of three stem-loops which are separated by two single-stranded regions. As in other positive-stranded RNA viruses, the 3' NTR of pestiviruses is involved in crucial processes of the viral life cycle. While several studies characterized cis-acting elements within the 3' NTR of a BVDV replicon, there are no studies addressing the significance of these elements in the context of a replicating virus. To examine the functional importance of 3' NTR elements, a set of 4-base deletions and deletions of each of the three stem-loops were introduced into an infectious BVDV cDNA clone. Emerging mutant viruses were characterized with regard to plaque phenotype, growth kinetics, and synthesis of viral RNA. The results indicated that presence of stem-loop (SL) I and the 3'-terminal part of the single-stranded region between stem-loops I and II are indispensable for pestiviral replication. In contrast, deletions within SL II and SL III as well as absence of either SL II or SL III still allowed efficient viral replication; however, a mutant RNA lacking both SL II and SL III was not infectious. The results of this study provide a detailed map of the essential and nonessential elements within the 3' NTR of BVDV and contribute to our understanding of sequence and structural elements important for efficient viral replication of pestiviruses in natural host cells.


pmid: 12596665
title: [Kinetics and persistence of neutralizing antibodies against bovine viral diarrhea virus-1 and -2 and border disease virus after two step vaccination of cattle]
abstract: The aim of the study was the assessment of rise and persistence of neutralizing antibodies (nAb) to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and border disease virus (BDV) after a two step vaccination using an inactivated BVDV/BDV (Mucobovin) and a modified live BVDV vaccine (Vacoviron). In a first experiment eight heifers were kept in isolation and were serologically surveyed regularly over a three year period after vaccination. The same experiment was done with 80 vaccinated cattle kept under field conditions. Neutralizing antibody titres were monitored using homologous as well as heterologous BVDV and one BDV strain, respectively. Maximum titres were obtained two to three months after vaccination. During the three years of monitoring the antibody titres decreased but never fell below the detection limit. This slow antibody regression demonstrates that a single two step vaccination elicited high nAb titres which persist over at least three years. These results might serve as a decision tool when considering the necessity and time of revaccination of cattle, which have been vaccinated using the two step method.


pmid: 8269361
title: Prevaccination bovine viral diarrhea virus titers and subsequent reproductive performance in dairy heifers
abstract: The study was conducted to determine if there was a relationship between prevaccination bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) titers in 14 month-old dairy heifers and time open during first lactation, length of the conception interval, fetal survival during the second pregnancy, and age at culling. Possible associations were analyzed using nonparametric survival methods and survival distributions were described using the product-limit (Kaplan Meier) methods. Regression analysis was used to estimate the correlation between pre- and postvaccination BVDV titers three years after vaccination. Evidence of exposure to BVDV prior to 14 months of age was demonstrated by serum-virus-neutralization titers greater than 1:4 for 97% and greater than or equal to 1:128 for 67% of the 72 heifers followed. No correlation was found for 38 pairs of prevaccination and postvaccination titers (p = 0.76). The risk of being culled was high for heifers (n = 41) with very low (1:2-1:8) or very high (> or = 1:256) titers, but low for heifers (n = 31) with moderate (1:16-1:128) prevaccination titers (p = 0.098). Risk of subsequent fetal loss was high for heifers (n = 30) with very low (1:2-1:16) or very high (> or = 1:256) prevaccination titers, compared to heifers (n = 24) with moderate (1:32-1:128) titers (p = 0.084). These findings suggest that prevaccination exposure to BVDV eliciting either a very weak or a very strong serological response may contribute to subsequent reproductive inefficiency and an increased risk of culling.


pmid: 27865262
title: Soluble forms of CD46 are detected in Bos taurus plasma and neutralize BVDV, the bovine pestivirus
abstract: The pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is known to bind to the CD46 molecule, which subsequently promotes entry of the virus. Mapping of the BVD-virion-binding site has shown that two peptides, 66EQIV69 and 82GQVLAL87, located on antiparallel beta sheets in the most distal complement control protein module (CCP1), provide the attachment platform. In the present study, we reveal new CD46-encoding transcripts that are predicted to encode CCP1-containing soluble forms. Further, we show that the serum of most adult cattle contains soluble CD46 (sCD46) and that a recombinant soluble isoform neutralizes BVDV infectivity in an in vitro assay. We have then established an ELISA for determination of plasma sCD46 in a large cohort of animals. Overall, serum sCD46 amounts to 8±18ng/mL (mean±SD, n=440), with a IC [95-105] ranging from 6,4 to 9,8ng/mL and extreme values ​​between 0 and 178ng/mL. We found that sCD46 is not detectable in fetal and neonatal sera and that its plasma concentration increases progressively up to adulthood. We also detected high- and low-sCD46 performers and show that this phenotype does not depend of environment. As modern rearing techniques make it possible to disseminate genetically-determined phenotypes very quickly in a population, a large-scale study examining whether high-sCD46 animals provide epidemiological protection against BVDV infection and transmission should be undertaken.


pmid: 20117546
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus: global status
abstract: Despite the success of regional bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) eradication programs, infections remain a source of economic loss for producers. The wide variation among BVDV results in differences in genotype, biotype, virulence, and types of infections. BVDV infect a range of domestic and wild ruminants. Clinical presentation varies depending on strain of virus, species of host, immune status of host, reproductive status of host, age of host, and concurrent infections. Recent advances in BVDV research and diagnostics have led to the development of regional eradication/control programs, the most efficacious of which focus on biosecurity, surveillance, and control.


pmid: 10559328
title: Mutational analysis of bovine viral diarrhea virus RNA-dependent RNA polymerase
abstract: Recombinant bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) nonstructural protein 5B (NS5B) produced in insect cells has been shown to possess an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) activity. Our initial attempt to produce the full-length BVDV NS5B with a C-terminal hexahistidine tag in Escherichia coli failed due to the expression of insoluble products. Prompted by a recent report that removal of the C-terminal hydrophobic domain significantly improved the solubility of hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS5B, we constructed a similar deletion of 24 amino acids at the C terminus of BVDV NS5B. The resulting fusion protein, NS5BDeltaCT24-His, was purified to homogeneity and demonstrated to direct RNA replication via both primer-dependent (elongative) and primer-independent (de novo) mechanisms. Furthermore, BVDV RdRp was found to utilize a circular single-stranded DNA as a template for RNA synthesis, suggesting that synthesis does not require ends in the template. In addition to the previously described polymerase motifs A, B, C, and D, alignments with other flavivirus sequences revealed two additional motifs, one N-terminal to motif A and one C-terminal to motif D. Extensive alanine substitutions showed that while most mutations had similar effects on both elongative and de novo RNA syntheses, some had selective effects. Finally, deletions of up to 90 amino acids from the N terminus did not significantly affect RdRp activities, whereas deletions of more than 24 amino acids at the C terminus resulted in either insoluble products or soluble proteins (DeltaCT179 and DeltaCT218) that lacked RdRp activities.


pmid: 10588010
title: Prevalence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus antibodies in India
abstract: A study was undertaken regarding the prevalence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) antibodies in bovine sera which tested negative for rinderpest and peste des petits ruminants virus antibodies. The samples were collected between January 1996 and December 1997. A total of 439 samples (327 cattle and 112 buffalo from 17 states of India) were tested using a commercial enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kit. The mean prevalence of BVDV antibodies in cattle was 15.29% (50/327) in 16 states compared to 23.21% (26/112) in buffalo in 9 states, with an overall prevalence of 17.31% (76/439) in 17 states. The serological evidence that BVDV infection is widespread in India is of utmost practical importance because of the clinical resemblance to rinderpest. A differential diagnosis between these two diseases is critical in view of the declaration by India of provisional freedom from rinderpest disease; active sero-surveillance is to begin in 2000 to achieve certification of freedom from rinderpest infection by the Office International des Epizooties.


pmid: 10028176
title: Bovine virus diarrhoea (BVD) control programme in an area in the Rome province (Italy)
abstract: A BVD control programme based on the identification and removal of persistently infected (PI) animals is being undertaken in an area in the Rome province, where BVD outbreaks had been previously detected. It involves 174 mainly dairy herds, from which blood samples of all bovines older than 1 year are obtained through the national brucellosis and leukosis eradication programme. Samples sufficient to detect the presence of seropositive animals at a prevalence of 5% or more are initially screened for antibodies against BVD virus (BVDV) using an immunoenzymatic assay. Upon identification of seroreagents additional blood samples are tested from the 6-12-month age category not included in the initial samples. Animals are considered immunotolerant if BVDV is demonstrated twice at a minimum 30-day interval. When no seropositive animals are detected during the first serological screening the herd is declared BVD-free if a second testing, preferably carried on the same animals previously tested, confirms the seronegative status of the herd. At present 147 farms have been tested, of which 63 (42.9%) are negative with respect to antibodies against BVDV. Of the 84 remaining herds in which one or more seropositives are detected, 13 are classified as recently infected. In eight of these recently infected herds, 22 PI animals have been identified.


pmid: 9719767
title: Prevalence of antibodies to bovine viral diarrhoea virus and/or border disease virus in domestic ruminants
abstract: A total of 62 sera collected from cattle, buffalo, sheep, goats and camels were investigated for the presence of antibodies to bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) virus. The prevalence of neutralizing antibodies to BVD virus was 49.2, 52.0, 27.5, 31.4 and 52.5% in cattle, buffalo, sheep, goats and camels, respectively. The positive sera were titrated against BVD virus (BVDV) strains NADL and Oregon C24V; the latter is closely related to border disease (BD) virus. The frequency distributions of the antibody titres to both strains are presented. The statistical analysis shows no significant difference between the antibody titres to BVDV strains NADL and Oregon C24V in cattle, buffalo, sheep, goats and camels. On the other hand antibody titres to BVDV were significantly higher (P < 0.05) in cattle and buffalo in comparison with sheep, goats and camels. The cell-bound immunoassay (CBIA) is a serological rest established for the detection and titration of antibodies to BVD virus and BD virus. The percentage of agreement between the CBIA and the neutralizing peroxidase-linked antibody (NPLA) test was 96.1 and 95.3% in cattle and buffalo, respectively. The sensitivity of the CBIA in comparison with the NPLA was 100% while the specificity was 92.3 and 90.3% when testing the sera of cattle and buffalo, respectively. The method is easy to perform, cheap and suitable for the conditions in Egypt.


pmid: 7979965
title: Border disease virus: delineation by monoclonal antibodies
abstract: Many ovine pestiviruses from Britain and a number of atypical porcine isolates are largely unrecognised by monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) specific for reference strains of classical swine fever virus and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). Additional mAbs have therefore been produced using some of these "unreactive" pestiviruses. Two of the viruses used were atypical porcine isolates (strains 87/6 and Vosges), whilst another had been isolated from a sheep (59386). Thirty-three mAbs were selected, none of which recognised two reference strains of BVDV, but three of which recognised the Alfort strain of classical swine fever. On the basis of radioimmunoprecipitation they were considered to be directed at one of three different pestivirus proteins (gp 53, gp 48 or p 125). Three virus subgroups were evident when the mAbs were used to type 16 ovine and two atypical porcine pestiviruses. One subgroup contained the Vosges and 59386 viruses and four ovine field isolates. The second subgroup comprised the 87/6 virus, the Moredun and Aveyron reference strains of border disease virus and four further ovine field isolates. Three of four ovine viruses making up the third subgroup had been previously categorised as BVDV-like and were largely unrecognised by the new mAbs. The findings were in agreement with previous attempts to segregate some of the same viruses using partial genomic comparisons or cross-neutralization tests.


pmid: 2766158
title: The frequency, distribution and effects of antibodies, to seven putative respiratory pathogens, on respiratory disease and weight gain in feedlot calves in Ontario
abstract: During 1983-85, 279 calves requiring treatment for bovine respiratory disease and 290 comparison (control) animals from 15 different groups of feedlot calves were bled on arrival and again at 28 days postarrival. Their sera were then analyzed for antibodies to seven putative respiratory pathogens. On arrival, the prevalences of indirect agglutination titers to Pasteurella haemolytica, P. haemolytica cytotoxin, Mycoplasma bovis and M. dispar were greater than 50%, the prevalence of titers to bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV) was approximately 40%, and the prevalences of titers to infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBRV), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and parainfluenza virus type 3 (PIV3) were all below 25%. Seroconversion during the first month after arrival occurred in more than half the calves to P. haemolytica cytotoxin, PIV3 and RSV. Seroconversion of agglutination titers to P. haemolytica, Mycoplasma and BVDV occurred in about 40% of calves, and seroconversion to IBRV was infrequent (less than 5%). Initial titers were negatively correlated to subsequent titer changes within organism. Initial titers, and titer changes between organisms were essentially independent. Light calves had an increased risk of being selected for treatment for respiratory disease. Seroconversion to P. haemolytica cytotoxin, RSV and BVDV were predictive of respiratory disease cases, explaining approximately 69% of all respiratory disease cases in the feedlots. It was not possible to accurately predict weight gain or relapse from the serological data.


pmid: 6329044
title: Prevalence of bovine herpesvirus-1, bovine viral diarrhea, parainfluenza-3, goat respiratory syncytial, bovine leukemia, and bluetongue viral antibodies in sheep
abstract: Sera from healthy sheep were collected in January and March 1982 from flocks of sheep located in southwestern and southeastern Louisiana. These sera were tested for bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), parainfluenza-3 (PI-3) virus, and goat respiratory syncytial virus (GRSV) antibodies by microtitration virus-neutralization test. The sera were tested also for bovine leukemia virus (BLV) and bluetongue virus (BTV) antibodies by immunodiffusion tests. The number of flocks with seropositive sheep for each virus were: 2/8 (25%) for BVDV; 8/8 (100%) for PI-3 virus; 7/8 (87.5%) for GRSV; and 6/8 (75%) for BTV. Seropositive rates for each virus for the individual sheep tested were: 4/158 (2.5%) for BVDV; 117/158 (74.1%) for PI-3 virus; 77/158 (48.7%) for GRSV; and 21/158 (13.3%) for BTV. All sheep were seronegative for BHV-1 and BLV.


pmid: 20116078
title: Molecular characterization of RNA and protein synthesis during a one-step growth curve of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in ovine (SFT-R) cells
abstract: The aim of this study was to determine the kinetics of noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) multiplication and synthesis of BVDV specific RNA and proteins in ovine cells (SFT-R) during a one-step growth curve. The virus titre and RNA level were determined by focus-forming assay and real time RT-PCR. The RNA synthesis was detected by Northern blot while synthesis of E2 and NS3 proteins was assayed by immunohistochemistry and Western blot. The results showed that synthesis of viral RNA is initiated at 4h, NS3 and E2 proteins are detectable at 6-7h and the replication cycle is complete at 10-12h. Additionally, we provide evidence that NS2-3 protein was cleaved in ovine cells early during infection and in proliferated leukocytes of acutely infected sheep. This study showed that synthesis of BVDV RNA and proteins in ovine cells occurs at similar times as found in bovine cells.


pmid: 15374531
title: Homologous recombination in bovine pestiviruses. Phylogenetic and statistic evidence
abstract: Bovine pestiviruses (Bovine Viral Diarrea Virus 1 (BVDV 1) and Bovine Viral Diarrea Virus 2 (BVDV 2)) belong to the genus Pestivirus (Flaviviridae), which is composed of positive stranded RNA viruses causing significant economic losses world-wide. We used phylogenetic and bootstrap analyses to systematically scan alignments of previously sequenced genomes in order to explore further the evolutionary mechanisms responsible for variation in the virus. Previously published data suggested that homologous crossover might be one of the mechanisms responsible for the genomic rearrangements observed in cytopathic (cp) strains of bovine pestiviruses. Nevertheless, homologous recombination involves not just homologous crossovers, but also replacement of a homologous region of the acceptor RNA. Furthermore, cytopathic strains represent dead paths in evolution, since they are isolated exclusively from the fatal cases of mucosal disease. Herein, we report evidence of homologous inter-genotype recombination in the genome of a non-cytopathic (ncp) strain of Bovine Viral Diarrea Virus 1, the type species of the genus Pestivirus. We also show that intra-genotype homologous recombination might be a common phenomenon in both species of Pestivirus. This evidence demonstrates that homologous recombination contribute to the diversification of bovine pestiviruses in nature. Implications for virus evolution, taxonomy and phylogenetics are discussed.


pmid: 8237210
title: Prolonged persistence of cytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in a persistently viremic cattle
abstract: A bull persistently viremic with noncytopathogenic (ncp) BVDV was inoculated with the cytopathic (cp) BVDV strain TGAC, which had been found to be antigenically different from the endogenous ncpBVDV (ncpW8). Neutralizing antibodies against strains NADL and TGAC were detectable 12 days and four weeks post infection, respectively. The animal developed fever and diarrhea 15 weeks post infection. On days 3 and 8 after onset of diarrhea a cpBVDV (cpX) was isolated from feces. Antigenic analysis using monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) showed that cpX and the endogenous ncpBVDV (ncpW8) had identical reactivity patterns except for one epitope that was neither expressed on TGAC nor on ncpW8. Using polymerase chain reaction analysis it was shown that both TGAC and cpX contained a p8 phi gene duplication combined with genomic insertions of identical size. Restriction enzyme analysis of the TGAC and cpX amplicons using four enzymes showed an identical cleavage pattern, except for HaeIII digestion where an additional fragment was observed with cpX. These results suggest that cpBVDV strain TGAC persisted in the viremic animal and apparently caused disease after 15 weeks.


pmid: 16726367
title: Fertility of cows challenged with a cytopathic strain of Bovine Viral Diarrhea virus during an outbreak of spontaneous infection with a noncytopathic strain
abstract: During an attempt to accumulate 40 Bovine Viral Diarrhea virus (BVDV) seronegative cows for breeding and for intramuscular infection on Day 21 of gestation, a persistently infected cow was inadvertently included among the first group of seronegative animals assembled. This animal proceeded to infect all seronegative animals added to the experimental herd. Since the addition of cows was gradual and they were bred as they arrived, a group of cows was bred before they seroconverted, another group was inseminated during seroconversion and a third group was seropositive when bred. First service conception rates were 22.2, 44.4 and 78.6%, respectively. The difference between 22.2 and 78.6% conception rates was significant (P < 0.05). Thirty cows were diagnosed pregnant at 21 d after service on the basis of nonreturn to estrus, presence of a palpable corpus luteum and high serum progesterone concentration. Seventeen of these received cytopathic BVDV intramuscularly and 13 cows served as controls. All control cows and 9 of 17 (52.9%) virus-treated cows had normal fetuses and placentas at slaughter on Day 70. Six pregnancies were lost between 23 and 33 d after insemination and two were lost between 35 and 40 d after insemination. Noncytopathic BVDV was demonstrated in all eight of these cows either in the buffy coat or in tissues, despite the presence of serum neutralizing antibodies.


pmid: 21132458
title: Genetic typing and epidemiologic observation of bovine viral diarrhea virus in Western China
abstract: Whole blood samples (472) were collected during the period of 2006-2008 from 15 cattle farms in seven districts of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, which is a major pastoral area and represents 1/6 of Chinese territory. Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was detected by nested reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay (RT-nPCR) and sequenced within the 5'-untranslated region of the genome. Approximately 43% (202 samples) were BVDV-positive. Of the positive samples, 24 were chosen for further sequencing, sequence comparisons, and phylogenetic reconstructions. The phylogenetic reconstructions demonstrated that these isolates clustered into either BVDV1b (18 samples) or BVDV1c (six samples) subgenotypes. None of the isolates sequenced showed any cytopathic effect in culture. Unlike previously published studies in Chinese cattle, no BVDV2 genotypes were detected. These results indicate that the predominant subgenotypes in Xinjiang are BVDV1b and BVDV1c. This finding can be useful for further BVDV epidemiological study in China.


pmid: 7735309
title: A proposed division of the pestivirus genus using monoclonal antibodies, supported by cross-neutralisation assays and genetic sequencing
abstract: Sixty-six pestiviruses from ruminant and porcine hosts were analysed with a panel of 76 monoclonal antibodies raised against 9 different viruses. Reactivity was used to construct epitope similarity maps for all of the viruses. Four principal virus subgroups were demonstrated. One subgroup equated to classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and included most porcine pestiviruses but none from ruminants. A second subgroup contained mainly viruses of bovine origin, including reference bovine viral diarrhoea viruses (BVDV) such as NADL; however viruses from pigs and sheep were also represented. A third subgroup represented by reference strains of border disease virus (BDV) comprised mainly ovine isolates, but also viruses from pigs. The fourth and most recently defined subgroup contained no reference strains of CSFV, BVDV or BDV, but included atypical viruses from cattle, sheep and pigs. The subgrouping scheme was supported by genetic comparisons between representative viruses from the 4 subgroups and by virus neutralisation with polyclonal sera.


pmid: 7865600
title: Comparative analysis of the 5' non-coding region of pestivirus RNA detected from live virus vaccines
abstract: Comparative analysis of nucleotide sequences in the 5' non-coding region (NCR) of pestivirus RNA detected from live porcine and human virus vaccines indicated that the contaminants are of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and that there are at least three genotypes, which are distinct from hog cholera virus, among the BVDV strains. Most of the nucleotide changes in variable regions of the 5' NCR were covariant, with complementary substitutions at other positions for secondary structures. The proposed secondary structure in the 5' NCR was similar to the prokaryotic rho independent terminator. Short open reading frames in the 5' NCR were well conserved among pestiviruses.


pmid: 35215974
title: ADAM17 Is an Essential Factor for the Infection of Bovine Cells with Pestiviruses
abstract: The entry of BVDV into bovine cells was studied using CRIB cells (cells resistant to infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus [BVDV]) that have evolved from MDBK cells by a spontaneous loss of susceptibility to BVDV. Recently, larger genetic deletions were reported but no correlation of the affected genes and the resistance to BVDV infection could be established. The metalloprotease ADAM17 was reported as an essential attachment factor for the related classical swine fever virus (CSFV). To assess whether ADAM17 might be involved in the resistance of CRIB-1 cells to pestiviruses, we analyzed its expression in CRIB-1 and MDBK cells. While ADAM17 protein was detectable in MBDK cells, it was absent from CRIB-1 cells. No functional full-length ADAM17 mRNA could be detected in CRIB cells and genetic analysis revealed the presence of two defective alleles. Transcomplementation of functional ADAM17 derived from MDBK cells in CRIB-1 cells resulted in a nearly complete reversion of their resistance to pestiviral infection. Our results demonstrate that ADAM17 is a key cellular factor for the pestivirus resistance of CRIB-1 cells and establishes its essential role for a broader range of pestiviruses.


pmid: 33415719
title: Infectious bovine abortions: observations from an organized dairy herd
abstract: Abortions in dairy animals can be caused by several infectious agents. Identification of the actual causal agent(s) is important for formulating suitable control strategies. A 3-year (2016-2018) longitudinal study was conducted in a dairy farm following an abortion storm in the mid- to late gestations. The investigation focused on the seven major infectious abortifacient in cattle, viz. bovine alphaherpesvirus-1 (BoHV-1), bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), Neospora caninum, Brucella abortus, Coxiella burnetii, Leptospira Hardjo, and Listeria monocytogenes. High seroprevalence was observed for BVDV (79.4%), Leptospira (70.5%), BoHV-1 (53.5%), and Brucella (45.0%) at the beginning of the investigation (August 2016). The incidence proportion increased for BVDV, Leptospira, and Brucella in the following years of the investigation. A strong association of Brucella seropositivity with history of abortion (OR = 3.27) was recorded. Incidence of BoHV-1 reduced during the period of study coincident with systematic IBR inactivated marker vaccination of the herd. Sixty-four abortion cases were investigated for the identification of causative agent(s) by microbial culture, serological (ELISA), and molecular detection (PCR/ real-time PCR). Antibodies to BVDV, Brucella, BoHV-1, Leptospira, Neospora, and Coxiella were detected in 63, 61, 56, 35, 5, and 6 aborting cattle, respectively. Real-time PCR/PCR of clinical specimens detected DNA of Brucella, BoHV-1, Coxiella, Leptospira, and Listeria in 34, 13, 12, 9, and 4 abortion cases, respectively. BVDV and Neospora were not detected in any specimen samples. Brucella abortus isolated from the farm was determined as ST1 by multi-locus sequence typing (MLST). DNA of multiple agents were detected in 21 of the 64 cases (43.75%). Overall, the data suggests, Brucella was the major causative agent, although multiple causative agents circulated in the farm.


pmid: 31634510
title: Bioprocess optimization for purification of chimeric VLP displaying BVDV E2 antigens produced in yeast Hansenula polymorpha
abstract: Chimeric virus-like particles (VLP) are known as promising tools in the development of safe and effective subunit vaccines. Recently, a technology platform to produce VLP based on the small surface protein (dS) of the duck hepatitis B virus was established. In this study, chimeric VLP were investigated displaying the 195 N-terminal amino acids derived from the glycoprotein E2 of the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) on their surface. Isolation of the VLP from methylotrophic yeast Hansenula polymorpha was allowed upon co-expression of wild-type dS and a fusion protein composed of the BVDV-derived antigen N-terminally fused to the dS. It was shown the VLP could be purified by a process adapted from the production of a recombinant hepatitis B VLP vaccine. However, the process essentially depended on costly ultracentrifugation which is critical for low cost production. In novel process variants, this step was avoided after modification of the initial batch capture step, the introduction of a precipitation step and adjusting the ion exchange chromatography. The product yield could be improved by almost factor 8 to 93 ± 12 mg VLP protein per 100 g dry cell weight while keeping similar product purity and antigenicity. This allows scalable and cost efficient VLP production.


pmid: 19623896
title: In vitro amplification of BVDV field strains isolated in Argentina: effect of cell line and culture conditions
abstract: The aim of this work was to study the in vitro amplification of BVDV (Pestivirus, Flaviridae) field isolates from Argentina in MDBK, BoTur and BHK-21 continuous cell lines. Field isolates 99/134 (mucosal disease), 00/693 (mucosal disease), 04P7016 (respiratory disease) and 04/89 (mucosal disease), genotype 1b, were used and compared with the Singer and NADL reference strains, genotype 1a. Additionally, cell lines derived from explants of bovine testis (RD-420), bovine uterus (NCL-1) and porcine kidney (PKZ) were tested as alternative substrates for BVDV propagation in vitro. The effect of cell line, harvest time and infection protocol was evaluated. The viral titers observed depended on the virus and harvest time but not on the infection protocol. We found that MDBK and BoTur cell lines were susceptible to the infection whereas BHK-21 and PKZ were not. NADL viral titers, 00/693 and 04/89, increased from 24 to 48 h p.i. in BoTur cells and then reached a plateau, whereas those of 99/134 and 04P7016 remained constant between 24 and 72 h p.i. BVDV Singer, on the other hand, presented a maximum titer at 24 h p.i. and then decreased. BVDV-NADL titers increased in MDBK and NCL-1 but not in RD-420 between 24 and 48 h p.i., and then decreased at 72 h p.i. These facts lead us to conclude that neither the subgenotypes (1a, 1b) nor the clinical symptoms of the animal from the virus had been isolated seem to affect the virus cell line kinetics of viral replication in vitro. On the other hand, the most homogenous behavior, the most similar replication curves, and highest titers observed in MDBK and NCL-1 seem to indicate that these lines are generally more susceptible to BVDV replication.


pmid: 17597267
title: Compatibility of plasmids encoding bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 and type 2 E2 in a single DNA vaccine formulation
abstract: Type 2 bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has become increasingly prevalent worldwide, and currently the ratio of type 2 to type 1 strains in the USA approaches 50%. Although there is cross-reactivity between BVDV type 1 and type 2 strains, BVDV1 vaccine strains poorly protect from type 2 infection, so vaccines against BVDV should contain antigens from both BVDV types. Previously we demonstrated efficacy of a BVDV1 E2 DNA vaccine, and in this study we optimized a BVDV2 E2 DNA vaccine. Furthermore, as an approach to vaccinate with a DNA vaccine against both BVDV types, we compared two strategies, mixing of plasmids encoding type 1 and type 2 E2, and co-expression of type 1 and type 2 E2 from one plasmid with an internal ribosomal entry site (IRES). An evaluation of the IRES-containing plasmids demonstrated that the C-terminally expressed protein is produced at lower levels and induces weaker immune responses than the N-terminally expressed protein, regardless of the position of the type 1 and type 2 E2 genes. In contrast, when both plasmids encoding type 1 and type 2 E2 were administered to mice, the immune responses were similar to those induced by the individual plasmids. Thus, a mixture of plasmids encoding type 1 and type 2 E2 could be a potential DNA vaccine candidate against both BVDV1 and BVDV2.


pmid: 9765411
title: Ribosomal S27a coding sequences upstream of ubiquitin coding sequences in the genome of a pestivirus
abstract: Molecular characterization of cytopathogenic (cp) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strain CP Rit, a temperature-sensitive strain widely used for vaccination, revealed that the viral genomic RNA is about 15.2 kb long, which is about 2.9 kb longer than the one of noncytopathogenic (noncp) BVDV strains. Molecular cloning and nucleotide sequencing of parts of the genome resulted in the identification of a duplication of the genomic region encoding nonstructural proteins NS3, NS4A, and part of NS4B. In addition, a nonviral sequence was found directly upstream of the second copy of the NS3 gene. The 3' part of this inserted sequence encodes an N-terminally truncated ubiquitin monomer. This is remarkable since all described cp BVDV strains with ubiquitin coding sequences contain at least one complete ubiquitin monomer. The 5' region of the nonviral sequence did not show any homology to cellular sequences identified thus far in cp BVDV strains. Databank searches revealed that this second cellular insertion encodes part of ribosomal protein S27a. Further analyses included molecular cloning and nucleotide sequencing of the cellular recombination partner. Sequence comparisons strongly suggest that the S27a and the ubiquitin coding sequences found in the genome of CP Rit were both derived from a bovine mRNA encoding a hybrid protein with the structure NH2-ubiquitin-S27a-COOH. Polyprotein processing in the genomic region encoding the N-terminal part of NS4B, the two cellular insertions, and NS3 was studied by a transient-expression assay. The respective analyses showed that the S27a-derived polypeptide, together with the truncated ubiquitin, served as processing signal to yield NS3, whereas the truncated ubiquitin alone was not capable of mediating the cleavage. Since the expression of NS3 is strictly correlated with the cp phenotype of BVDV, the altered genome organization leading to expression of NS3 most probably represents the genetic basis of cytopathogenicity of CP Rit.


pmid: 25955849
title: Viral Dose and Immunosuppression Modulate the Progression of Acute BVDV-1 Infection in Calves: Evidence of Long Term Persistence after Intra-Nasal Infection
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection of cattle causes a diverse range of clinical outcomes from being asymptomatic, or a transient mild disease, to producing severe cases of acute disease leading to death. Four groups of calves were challenged with a type 1 BVDV strain, originating from a severe outbreak of BVDV in England, to study the effect of viral dose and immunosuppression on the viral replication and transmission of BVDV. Three groups received increasing amounts of virus: Group A received 10(2.55)TCID50/ml, group B 10(5.25)TCID50/ml and group C 10(6.7)TCID 50/ml. A fourth group (D) was inoculated with a medium dose (10(5.25)TCID50/ml) and concomitantly treated with dexamethasone (DMS) to assess the effects of chemically induced immunosuppression. Naïve calves were added as sentinel animals to assess virus transmission. The outcome of infection was dose dependent with animals given a higher dose developing severe disease and more pronounced viral replication. Despite virus being shed by the low-dose infection group, BVD was not transmitted to sentinel calves. Administration of dexamethasone (DMS) resulted in more severe clinical signs, prolonged viraemia and virus shedding. Using PCR techniques, viral RNA was detected in blood, several weeks after the limit of infectious virus recovery. Finally, a recently developed strand-specific RT-PCR detected negative strand viral RNA, indicative of actively replicating virus, in blood samples from convalescent animals, as late as 85 days post inoculation. This detection of long term replicating virus may indicate the way in which the virus persists and/or is reintroduced within herds.


pmid: 21141278
title: [Testing for BTV, BVDV and BHV-1 in blood samples of new world camelids kept in middle Germany]
abstract: The susceptibility of camelids for infectious agents which may result in severe economic losses or which are strictly regulated for epidemiological reasons in farm animals potentially causes a mutual risk of transmission. This study aimed to investigate the presence of antibodies against bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1), bluetongue virus (BTV) and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) as well as the presence of pestivirus antigen in new world camelids in Central Germany. Therefore 107 serum samples from 93 alpacas and lamas from this region which had been obtained from 2007 to 2009 were examined using ELISA, serum neutralisation test, RT-PCR and a pestivirus specific gene probe. All sample were negative for BHV-1 antibodies. Antibodies against BVDV-1 could be detected in four animals, titres reaching from 1:64 to > 1:256. One animal was positive for BTV antibodies in the year 2008. This animal had been tested negative for BTV antibodies in 2007. It can be concluded that up to now, these viruses seem to be of minor importance as pathogens in new world camelids in Central Germany. Therefore the risk of infection originating from new world camelids for production animals could be considered to be rather low in this region at the moment. However, it must be taken into consideration that these animals due to lack of antibodies are fully susceptible in case of occurrence of one of these viruses. For maintenance and improvement of the present status, general hygienic precautions should be applied; direct and indirect contact between animals from different herds must be avoided and virological diagnostic and quarantine should be required trading these animals.


pmid: 20015556
title: Associations between reproductive performance and seropositivity for bovine leukemia virus, bovine viral-diarrhea virus, Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis, and Neospora caninum in Canadian dairy cows
abstract: Our objective was to investigate effects of seropositivity for bovine leukemia virus (BLV), Type 1 bovine viral-diarrhea virus (BVDV), Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP), and Neospora caninum (NC), and their possible interactions, on reproductive efficiency (specifically, first-service conception [FSC], and calving interval [CI]) in dairy cows. The sample population included up to 30 randomly selected animals from 179 randomly selected farms in five provinces in Canada, from which 23 farms did not meet the inclusion criteria for the final dataset. Serum samples were tested for antibodies against the stated pathogens using commercially available diagnostic tests. A Cox proportional hazards model with shared (herd-level) frailty was utilized to analyze the CI data. In this model, BLV-seropositive cows had a 7% lower rate of conception compared to seronegative cows (P=0.06). Mixed logistic regression models of CI>484 days, CI>534 days, and CI>584 days were built to explore factors of long CIs. These cut-offs were selected to represent calving-to-conception intervals of >200 days, >250 days, and >300 days. BLV-seropositive cows had higher odds of having a CI>484 days compared to BLV-seronegative cows, and BLV serostatus interacted with lactation number in this model, with 1st lactation seropositive cows being more likely to have a CI>484 days than older seropositive cows. NC-seropositive cows had a 1.27 times higher odds of exhibiting a CI>484 days, a 1.37 times higher odds of a CI>534 days, and a 1.54 times higher odds of a CI>584 days, compared to NC-seronegative cows. Neither BVDV nor MAP seropositivity showed any significant effect in these models. For the FSC models, a first service was classified successful (pregnancy=1) if it was the cow's last service and she calved 270-290 days later. A mixed logistic regression model of FSC revealed an interaction between NC and BVDV-seropositivity at the herd level, with odds ratios of 0.64, 1.06 and 0.85 for NC-seropositive cows (compared to NC-seronegative cows) in BVDV-seronegative, BVDV-seropositive and BVDV-missing herds, respectively. BLV and MAP seropositivity had no significant impact on FSC. All models controlled for herd-clustering effects, and included parity, linear score of somatic cell counts, peak milk, and province to control for confounding. The overall FSC was 51%, the average CI was 393 days, and 18%, 9% and 5% of lactations had CI>484 days, >534 days, and >584 days, respectively.


pmid: 25022687
title: Acute phase response elicited by experimental bovine diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection is associated with decreased vitamin D and E status of vitamin-replete preruminant calves
abstract: Studies in young animals have shown an association between vitamin deficiencies and increased risk of infectious disease; however, there is a paucity of information regarding the effect of acute infection on the vitamin status of the vitamin-replete neonate. To characterize the effects of acute infection on vitamin D and E status of the neonate, 6 vitamin-replete preruminant Holstein bull calves were experimentally infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV; strain BVDV2-1373). Six mock-inoculated calves served as controls. Sustained pyrexia, leukopenia, and asynchronous increases in serum haptoglobin and serum amyloid A characterized the response of calves to infection with BVDV. Infection was also associated with increased serum IFN-γ, IL-2, and IL-6 concentrations. During the last 8 d of the 14-d postinoculation period, serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D and α-tocopherol concentrations in infected calves decreased by 51 and 82%, respectively. The observed inverse association between vitamin D and E status and serum amyloid A in infected calves suggests that the infection-induced acute phase response contributed to the reduced vitamin status of these animals. Additional studies are necessary to determine if the negative effect of infection on status are unique to this specific infection model or is representative of preruminant calf's response to acute infection. Studies are also needed to characterize mechanisms underlying infection-related changes in vitamin D and E status and to determine whether additional vitamin D or E supplementation during an acute infection diminishes disease severity and duration in the young animal.


pmid: 21316721
title: Serological response of guinea pigs to oily and aqueous inactivated vaccines containing a Brazilian isolate of the Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV)
abstract: Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) is widespread in cattle in Brazil and research shows its large antigenic variability. Available vaccines are produced with virus strains isolated in other countries and may not be effective. In this study, inactivated vaccines containing the Brazilian BVDV-Ib IBSP11 isolate were developed and tested on 6 groups of 10 guinea pigs (Cavia porcellus). Animals in groups A and C received an aqueous vaccine (aluminum hydroxide); B and D groups received an oily vaccine (Montanide ISA50); Group E positive-control animals were given an imported commercial vaccine with BVDV-Ia Singer; Group F animals were sham vaccinated (negative control). Groups A, B and E received two doses, and Groups C and D, three, every 21 days. Twelve blood samples were taken, at 21-day intervals over 231 days, and evaluated for antibody titer through virus-neutralization (VN), using a homologous strain (IBSP11), and a heterologous strain (BVDV-Ia NADL). Most animals, 42 days following the first dose, seroconverted to both strains and, after the second dose, there was a significant increase of titers in all groups. The oily formulation induced greater response after the third administration. This increase was not observed with the aqueous vaccines, regardless of the virus used in the VN. Antibody decline was more rapid in animals that received aqueous vaccines. The results showed the importance of studying the influence of endemic strains of commercial vaccines, to improve the efficacy of BVD vaccination. Use of the endemic strain in vaccine formulation presented promising results, as well as the use of guinea pigs as a laboratory model.


pmid: 25019170
title: Comparison of conventional RT-PCR, reverse-transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification, and SYBR green I-based real-time RT-PCR in the rapid detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus nucleotide in contaminated commercial bovine sera batches
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) can contaminate biological products produced in bovine or porcine cells or manufactured using bovine sera. A rapid, specific, sensitive, and practical method of detecting BVDV in bio-products is needed. The purpose of this study was to compare three assays with respect to their ability to accurately detect BVDV in biological samples, namely reverse-transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP), SYBR green I-based real-time RT-PCR, and conventional RT-PCR. All assays detected BVDV nucleotide and differentiated between BVDV-free and -contaminated bovine sera successfully. In addition, the results were specific to BVDV: the amplification of samples containing the closely related classical swine fever virus or other pathogenic bovine viruses yielded negative results. The lowest detection threshold, 10(1) copies, was displayed by the SYBR green I-based real-time RT-PCR and RT-LAMP assay. This assay was also the most effective in the detection of BVDV contamination in a set of commercially available bovine sera. The field conditions suggest that RT-LAMP is specific and sensitive to detecting BVDV in biological samples and may be used for quality control of biomaterials.


pmid: 31386701
title: Mannitol-induced gold nanoparticle aggregation for the ligand-free detection of viral particles
abstract: Traditional virus detection methods require ligands that bind to either viral capsid proteins or viral nucleic acids. Ligands are typically antibodies or oligonucleotides and they are expensive, have limited chemical stability, and can only detect one specific type of virus at a time. Here, the biochemical surface properties of viruses are exploited for ligand-free, nonspecific virus detection. It has been found that the osmolyte mannitol can preferentially aggregate virus, while leaving proteins in solution. This led to the development of a ligand-free detection of virus using gold nanoparticle (AuNP) aggregation. Porcine parvovirus (PPV) was incubated with AuNPs and aggregation of the PPV-AuNP complex with mannitol was detected by dynamic light scattering (DLS). The lowest detectable concentration of PPV was estimated to be 106 MTT50 per mL, which is lower than standard antibody assays. PPV was also detected when swabbed from a dry surface and in the presence of a protein solution matrix. The enveloped bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was also detected using mannitol-induced aggregation of BVDV-coated AuNPs. The lowest detectable concentration of BVDV was estimated to be 104 MTT50 per mL. This demonstrates that gold nanoparticle aggregation can detect virus without the use of specific ligands.


pmid: 20376559
title: The first report on the prevalence of pestivirus infection in camels in Sudan
abstract: The role of pestivirus particularly bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in causing respiratory infections in camels was studied in four different localities in Sudan. The evaluation was carried out using ELISA, and positive specimens were further tested using direct fluorescent antibody technique (FAT) and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for confirmation. The overall detected seroprevalence of BVD in camel sera was 84.6% with the highest prevalence in Western Sudan (92.5%) and with most of positives showing 2+ and 3+ titer. Out of 186 lung specimens examined for BVDV antigen, 13 were found positive (7%) with the highest prevalence in Central Sudan. All ELISA-positive specimens were positive using FAT and RT-PCR. To our knowledge, this is the first report for the detection of BVDV antigen and antibodies in camels in Sudan.


pmid: 20093701
title: An outbreak of late-term abortions, premature births, and congenital deformities associated with a bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 subtype b that induces thrombocytopenia
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1) subtype b was isolated from premature Holstein calves from a dairy herd that experienced an outbreak of premature births, late-term abortions, brachygnathism, growth retardation, malformations of the brain and cranium, and rare extracranial skeletal malformations in calves born to first-calf heifers. Experimental inoculation of 3 colostrum-deprived calves aged 2-4 months old with this BVDV isolate resulted in thrombocytopenia, lymphopenia, and leukopenia. Outbreaks of brachygnathism are rarely associated with BVDV, and thrombocytopenia is rarely associated with BVDV-1 strains.


pmid: 19447037
title: Discovery of diphenylmethane analogs as anti-bovine diarrhea viral agents
abstract: Based on antiviral screening of our diphenylmethane derivatives prepared as steroid substitutes, we identified a 1,1-diphenylcyclobutane analog (9) and two diethyldiphenylsilane analogs (12 and 13) as superior lead compounds with potent anti-bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) activity, having 50% effective concentration (EC(50): based on reduction of BVDV replication-induced cell destruction) and 50% cytotoxic concentration (CC(50): based on reduction of viable cell number) values of 6.2-8.4 microM and >100 microM, respectively, in Madin-Darby bovine kidney (MDBK) cells infected with BVDV.


pmid: 11679171
title: Estimating transfer of bovine virus-diarrhoea virus in Danish cattle by use of register data
abstract: To study how routinely recorded data (also called "register data") might be used in disease monitoring on a regional or national level, a database for bovine virus-diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was made from existing databases, covering the period January 1995-November 1999. This paper includes a general description of the database, including basic statistics for selected variables. Information was largely complete for cattle herds in the milk-recording scheme (MRS), but only partly available for other herds. A methodology was developed to identify when and how a herd initially was infected. For most herds, it was possible to determine when and how BVDV first was introduced. Among the infected herds, most were already infected by the start of the study. BVDV had been present in 40% of the MRS herds and in 9% of the non-MRS herds. In the MRS herds, most new infections were associated with a dam that had been present in the same herd during gestation. Among the non-MRS herds, most new infections were associated with movement of a persistently infected animal. The monthly number of newly infected herds is presented; it is seen that the incidence declined substantially during the study period.


pmid: 11042414
title: Development of a fetal challenge method for the evaluation of bovine viral diarrhea virus vaccines
abstract: A method to evaluate the efficacy of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) vaccines using a multiple challenge model was investigated. Four pregnant heifers were challenged intranasally with a type I and type II isolate of BVDV at 75 days of gestation. At 60 days postinoculation, virus isolation and RT-PCR from blood and tissues of fetuses indicated that all fetus were persistently infected with both type I and type II isolates. Differing results of detection by PCR and virus isolation between the type I and type II isolates were obtained. These preliminary studies may indicate differences in the level of replication between type I and type II BVDV as well as predilected sites of replication in certain tissues.


pmid: 10342291
title: Bovine herpes virus expressing envelope protein (E2) of bovine viral diarrhea virus as a vaccine candidate
abstract: The gene encoding the envelope protein (E2) of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was expressed under the thymidine kinase (TK) promoter of Korean bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1) isolate. Thymidine kinase negative (TK-) BHV-1 recombinants expressing E2 of BVDV were constructed and the expression of E2 was identified by immunofluorescence and Western blotting. Compared to wild type BHV-1, the recombinant BHV-1 had a delayed cytopathogenic effect in cells. The immunogenicity of the recombinant BHV-1 was examined in guinea pigs and cattle. Although an increase in body temperature was detected for a few days, the inoculated cattle returned to normal temperature with the development of neutralizing antibodies to BVDV.


pmid: 9526856
title: Changes in levels of viremia in cattle persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Virus isolation and serum neutralizing antibody titers were determined over a period of time from samples collected from animals persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). To evaluate over time the ability to detect BVDV by virus isolation from serum or white blood cell preparations, 4 persistently infected calves were monitored from birth until 70 days of age. In 3 of 4 persistently infected calves, virus isolation from serum and white blood cells was negative until approximately 42 days of age, when colostral antibody had declined. The level of viremia in 7 adult (> 12 months) persistently infected animals decreased by 1 10-fold dilution over at least a 2-year period. The level of viremia became undetectable by virus isolation from serum in 1 of the 7 animals examined. This decline was associated with the development of virus neutralizing antibody. Although the level of viremia is fairly stable within persistently infected animals, the presence of specific neutralizing antibody may affect the ability to isolate BVDV. These findings are important when considering diagnostic testing to identify persistently infected animals by virus isolation.


pmid: 8212597
title: Processing of poly-ubiquitin in the polyprotein of an RNA virus
abstract: The RNA genome of several cytopathogenic (cp) strains of the pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) contains ubiquitin coding sequences (ucs). In noncytopathogenic BVDV strains, such insertions are missing. Gene expression of BVDV occurs via synthesis of a polyprotein which is subsequently processed by virus-encoded and cellular proteases. The insertion of ucs in the genomes of cpBVDV strains CP14 and Osloss leads to additional cleavages in the viral polyprotein. The respective processing events are mediated by cellular ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolases (UCHs). Release of monomeric ubiquitin (ubi) from the poly-ubi fragment encoded by CP14 is achieved by cleavage at the C-terminus as well as at the N-terminus of a complete ubi monomer. This result extends the current knowledge about poly-ubi processing. Processing of the polyprotein of CP14 and Osloss by UCHs generates an 80-kDa protein (p80), the marker protein of cpBVD viruses. Thus, the cp phenotype of both strains is apparently caused by the uptake of the ucs in the viral genome. Since cpBVDV strains arise in cattle in the course of a fatal disease, a direct linkage exists between the insertion of ucs and a lethal disease.


pmid: 8111615
title: Morbidity and mortality in a large Irish feedlot; microbiological and serological findings in cattle with acute respiratory disease
abstract: A survey of morbidity and mortality was undertaken in a slatted unit containing 6399 beef cattle over a 6 month period. The mortality rate was 0.78% and the morbidity rate was 12.7%. The interval from arrival to morbidity was 25.5 days +/- 0.9. Significantly more sick cattle were identified on either Mondays or Tuesdays than were seen on Saturdays or Sundays (P < 0.005). The mean interval to mortality (all diseases) was 48.5 days +/- 7.4. Respiratory disease was the most frequently recorded disease and was responsible for 62% of morbidity and 58% of mortality. Samples from 133 cattle, taken as they presented with acute onset respiratory disease, contained antibodies to Bovine Herpes Virus -1(BHV-1) (14.3%), Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) (78%), Bovine Respiratory Syncytial Virus (BRSV) (94%) and Parainfluenza type 1 Virus (P13V) (99%). When the same cattle were resampled 4 to 6 weeks later antibodies were found for BHV-1 (93.2%), BVDV (99.2%), BRSV (100%) and P13V (100%). Eleven of 27 bronchoalveolar lavage samples taken from the above group of cattle exhibited positive fluorescence for BHV-1 but all 27 samples were negative for BVDV, BRSV and P13V. Pasteurella multocida was isolated from eight of the 27 lavage samples and Pasteurella haemolytica from one sample.


pmid: 1846490
title: Viral cytopathogenicity correlated with integration of ubiquitin-coding sequences
abstract: The RNA genomes of cytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolates contain insertions highly homologous to cellular sequences. For two of them the insert was identified as ubiquitin coding sequence. The genome of BVDV Osloss contains exactly one ubiquitin gene monomer. In the case of BVDV CP1 the cellular insertion comprises one complete ubiquitin gene and part of a second monomer. The host cell-derived element in the CP1 genome is embedded in a large duplication of about 2.4 kb of viral sequences. Cellular insertion and duplication were not found in the genome of NCP1, the noncytopathogenic counterpart of CP1. These results strongly suggest that recombination between viral and cellular RNA is responsible for development of the cytopathogenic viruses, which is linked to pathogenesis of a lethal disease in cattle.


pmid: 1645592
title: Detection of cattle infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus using nucleic acid hybridization
abstract: A ribonucleic acid (RNA) hybridization assay to identify cattle infected by bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is described. The RNA probe was derived from the coding region at the 3' end of the genome of the NADL strain of BVDV. Total RNA from infected cell cultures or peripheral blood leukocytes from suspect animals was extracted and applied to nylon membranes with a slot blot apparatus. Peripheral blood leukocytes were tested concurrently for BVDV by virus isolation. The results of hybridization and virus isolation were in agreement for 92% of the cases. When compared with virus isolation, hybridization had a sensitivity of detection of 59.5% and a specificity of 95%. Cross-reactivity to RNA extracts of border disease virus-infected cells was noted. No cross-reactivity was detected to other common bovine viruses (bovine herpesvirus-1, bovine respiratory syncytial virus, parainfluenza-3 virus, and bluetongue virus), to viruses classified in related families (equine arteritis virus and Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus), or to viruses having similar genomic organization (dengue virus type 2 and Japanese encephalitis virus).


pmid: 23219806
title: Competitive virus assay method for titration of noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea viruses (END⁺ and END⁻ viruses)
abstract: A new, reliable and secure virus assay method, named the competitive virus assay (CVA) method, has been established for the titration of bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDVs) that either show the exaltation of Newcastle disease virus (END) phenomenon or heterologous interference phenomenon (but not the END phenomenon). This method is based on the principle of (1) homologous interference between BVDVs, by using BVDV RK13/E(-) or BVDV RK13/E(+) strains as competitor virus, and (2) END phenomenon and heterologous interference, by using attenuated Newcastle disease virus (NDV) TCND strain as challenge virus. In titration of BVDV END(+) and BVDV END(-) viruses, no significant difference in estimated virus titer was observed between CVA and conventional methods. CVA method demonstrated comparable levels of sensitivity and accuracy as conventional END and interference methods, which require the use of a velogenic Miyadera strain of NDV and vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), both of which are agents of high-risk diseases. As such, the CVA method is a safer alternative, with increased bio-safety and bio-containment, through avoidance of virulent strains that are commonly employed with conventional methods.


pmid: 22513121
title: 5-acetyl-2-arylbenzimidazoles as antiviral agents. Part 4
abstract: Within a project aimed at discovering new Flaviviridae inhibitors, new variously substituted 2-phenylbenzimidazoles were synthesized and evaluated in cell-based assays for cytotoxicity and antiviral activity against viruses representatives of the three genera of the Flaviviridae family, i.e.: Pestivirus (BVDV), Flavivirus (YFV) and Hepacivirus (HCV). Title compounds were also tested against RNA viruses representative of other single-stranded, positive-sense (ssRNA(+)) negative-sense (RNA(-)), or double-stranded (dsRNA) genomes, as well as against representatives of two DNA virus families. Nine compounds showed activity against BVDV (EC(50) = 0.8-8.0 μM), compound 31 being the most potent (EC(50) = 0.80 μM) and selective (SI = CC(50)/EC(50) = >100). When tested in an HCV replicon assay, compound 31 resulted again the most potent, displaying an EC(50) value of 1.11 μM and an SI of 100. Besides inhibiting BVDV, two compounds (35 and 38) showed a moderate activity also against YFV (EC(50) = 13 μM). Interestingly, 35 was moderately active also against RSV (EC(50) = 25 μM).


pmid: 22078277
title: Pestivirus and alphaherpesvirus infections in Swedish reindeer (Rangifer tarandus tarandus L.)
abstract: Herding semi-domesticated reindeer has economic and social value for Sami people in the northern territories of Fennoscandia. However, with the intensification of reindeer husbandry, interspecies transmission of pathogens between reindeer and domestic animals may become a problem, especially for countries such as Sweden, Norway, and Finland where pestivirus and alphaherpesvirus have been eradicated in domestic ruminants. This study, which included 1158 Swedish reindeer, showed relatively high prevalence of antibodies against bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) (32%) and bovine herpesvirus-1 (BoHV-1) (53%). Adult animals were more often seropositive for BVDV and BoHV-1 (50% and 78%, respectively) than were calves (18 and 11%, respectively). While the seroprevalence of alphaherpesvirus was similar in different herding districts, pestivirus seropositivity was highest in the South and diminished towards the North of the Swedish reindeer herding area. High correlation of the seropositivity against both pathogens at both individual and herd levels may indicate possible mutual synergetic effects and may be explained by the immunosuppressive nature of the viruses. While alphaherpesvirus seroprevalence was probably related to putative cervid herpesvirus 2 (CvHV-2), the pestivirus infecting reindeer remains undefined. The virus neutralisation test of reindeer sera using different pestivirus strains, revealed higher titres against Border disease virus strains like 137/4 (BDV-1) and Reindeer-1 (BDV-2) than against BVDV-1. However, the virus was not identified by real time RT-PCR in any of the samples (n=276) from seronegative reindeers. The study showed that pestivirus and alphaherpesvirus infections are endemic in the Swedish reindeer population.


pmid: 12121047
title: Prevalence of antibodies to classical swine fever, Aujeszky's disease, porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome, and bovine viral diarrhoea viruses in wild boars in Croatia
abstract: During the hunting season in February 1999, a total of 44 blood samples were collected from wild boars shot in the area of Moslavacka gora. These blood samples were examined by enzyme immunoassay for the presence of antibodies to classical swine fever (CSFV), Aujeszky's disease (ADV), bovine viral diarrhoea (BVDV), and porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRSV) viruses. Out of 44 serum samples examined, 17 (38.63%) were positive for CSFV, 24 (54.54%) were positive for ADV and two (4.54%) were positive for BVDV. All sera were negative for PRRSV. The results, recorded for the first time in Croatia, supported the hypothesis that wild boar act as a potential reservoir of CSFV, ADV and BVDV, and thus have a role in the epidemiology of these diseases.


pmid: 8940226
title: Contamination of commercially available fetal bovine sera with bovine viral diarrhea virus genomes: implications for the study of hepatitis C virus in cell cultures
abstract: The establishment of cell cultures for hepatitis C virus (HCV) is important for its study as a human pathogen. However, in reported cell lines, HCV demonstrates low levels of replication detected primarily by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assays. In attempts to culture HCV, an additional complication was observed. From mock-infected cultures, cDNA of appropriate size was obtained by RT-PCR with primers deduced from conserved domains of the 5' noncoding region of HCV. However, sequence analysis revealed that the cDNA was amplified from bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). All of 7 bovine sera tested were contaminated with BVDV. In conclusion, most commercially available bovine sera are contaminated with BVDV and, although there is no evidence that the virus is infectious, bovine sera should be screened for this virus by RT-PCR when used in conjunction with HCV or for the development or production of vaccine.


pmid: 21117287
title: Clinical bovine viral diarrhoea virus infection in Jordan
abstract: A 1-year-old Holstein Friesian heifer was presented for anorexia and acute diarrhoea. The heifer was born and raised at the farm. Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection was diagnosed using clinical signs and RT-PCR. Clinical BVDV infection has never been reported in Jordan.


pmid: 19900740
title: Virucidal activity of 2 alcohol-based formulations proposed as hand rubs by the World Health Organization
abstract: The virucidal activity of 2 hand rubs proposed by the World Health Organization was studied in a quantitative suspension test for chemical disinfectants and antiseptics in human medicine (EN 14476). These formulations are recommended if no hand rubs with declared microbiological activity are available in health care settings. Formulation I, based on ethanol, inactivated bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), hepatitis C virus (HCV), adenovirus, and murine norovirus as a surrogate for human norovirus. Formulation II, based on isopropyl alcohol, was active only against adenovirus and enveloped viruses, such as BVDV and HCV. Both formulations failed to inactivate poliovirus by 4 log(10) steps within 300 seconds.


pmid: 10028177
title: Study on prevalence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) antibodies in 29 Italian dairy herds with reproductive problems
abstract: An epidemiological survey on prevalence distribution of antibodies to BVDV was carried out in dairy cattle herds during 1995-1996 in northern Italy. A total of 704 serum samples from 29 non-vaccinated herds reported to have reproductive problems were tested for serum neutralising antibodies. In each herd, sampling was based on the stratification by age into five classes (< 6 months old calves, 6-12 months old calves, pregnant heifers, uniparous, pluriparous). Overall, 53.3% of samples were serologically positive, with the lowest ratio in 6-12 months old calves (37.9%) and the highest in pluriparous cows (71.2%).


pmid: 9210938
title: Identification of cattle infected with bovine virus diarrhoea virus using a monoclonal antibody capture ELISA
abstract: A monoclonal antibody capture enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) has been developed to detect pestivirus-specific antigen in the leucocytes of cattle infected with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV). A blind trial was conducted to compare the specificity of the ELISA with conventional tissue culture virus isolation on 215 blood samples submitted for BVDV diagnosis from cattle throughout Scotland. One hundred and sixty seven samples were negative by both ELISA and virus isolation and 47 samples were positive by both tests. One blood was negative by ELISA and positive by virus isolation.


pmid: 6256331
title: Survey for antibodies to viruses of bovine virus diarrhea, bluetongue, and epizootic hemorrhagic disease in hunter-killed mule deer in New Mexico
abstract: Sera from male mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) collected in November 1977 in Otero County, New Mexico were tested fro antibodies to bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV), bluetongue virus (BTV), and epizootic hemorrhagic disease virus (EHDV). Neutralizing antibodies were detected in 26 of 76 (34%) sera tested for BVDV (titer greater than or equal to 1:16). Of 46 sera tested for antibodies to BTV and EHDV, 10 (22%) and 3 (7%), respectively, were positive. Three (7%) of 46 sera were suspect (titer < 1:20) for BTV, and 18 (38%) sera were suspect (titer < 1:20) for EHDV.


pmid: 26380946
title: Serological detection of infection dynamics for respiratory viruses among dairy calves
abstract: The aim of this study is to reveal infection dynamics of bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), bovine parainfluenza virus type 3 (PI-3), bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine adenovirus type 3 (BAV-3) and bovine coronavirus (BCoV), which are important viral pathogens of respiratory disease complex in ruminants. Through such an analysis, the regression period of maternally derived antibodies and optimum vaccination time in calves can be recommended. A total of 10 farms were grouped as large (4)-, medium (2)- and small (4)- sized enterprises according to their animal population. Newborn calves (n: 94) delivered during a calendar month on the farms were studied. Blood samples were collected from these calves during their 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 6th, 8th, 10th and 12th months of age. Blood samples were also taken from their dams during the first sampling. Neutralizing antibody titers were detected using the serum neutralization test (SN50). New PI-3 and BVDV infections at the early stages of life were determined in the calves. Maternal antibodies began to decrease in the 2nd month for BRSV, BHV-1 and BAV-3 (97.8%, 25.5% and 91.4%) and in the 3rd month for PI-3, BVDV and BCoV (85.1%, 67% and 93.6%). It was concluded that maternal antibodies begin to decrease after the 1st month and that the possible first exposure of calves to respiratory viruses is after the 2nd month. Therefore, it is recommended that the first vaccination program including prime and booster doses can be applied between 2 and 4 months of age. Furthermore, re-vaccination of animals at 6 months after the booster dose is also suggested.


pmid: 25023907
title: Bulk tank milk somatic cell counts in dairy herds with different bovine viral diarrhoea virus status in Poland
abstract: The aim of the study was to examine the effect of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection on bulk tank milk somatic cell counts (BMSCC). Twenty nine dairy farms supplying milk to a dairy in Eastern Poland were recruited for the study. Bulk milk ELISA and RT-PCR were used to determine the BVDV infection status and the presence of PI animals in the farms. The BMSCC mean values for the BVDV seronegative (218.7 × 10(3)cells/ml; SD: 89.8) and seropositive (214.9 × 10(3)cells/ml; SD: 74.0) herds did not differ significantly. To assess the relationship between BVDV infection and BMSCC a multilevel mixed-effects linear model was used. No statistically significant effect of BVDV infection on BMSCC was found. The mean values of BMSCC for the herds with PI individuals measured before (230.1 × 10(3)cells/ml, SD: 64.9) and after (223.3 × 10(3)cells/ml, SD: 62.4) the PI removal were not statistically different. An increase in herd size was associated with a significant decrease in BMSCC. An increase in BMSCC was observed during summer (from May to September) compared to during winter (from October to April).


pmid: 19523981
title: A short target real-time RT-PCR assay for detection of pestiviruses infecting cattle
abstract: A rapid single step real-time duplex TaqMan RT-PCR was developed for detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV)-1, BVDV-2 and border disease virus (BDV). Based on alignment of available and newly generated partial 5'-UTR nucleotide sequences, one forward and two reverse primers were designed, which amplify a 104bp PCR product. Two TaqMan probes labelled with different fluorochromes were designed to detect BVDV-1/BVDV-2 and BDVs, respectively. The assay was able to detect a selection of strains and isolates that represent the genetic diversity of these three viruses, with an analytical sensitivity that corresponded to 3.6, 48 and 4.8 TCID(50) of BVDV-1, BVDV-2 and BDV, respectively. With an overall cycling time of around 70 min, the assay allows rapid diagnosis and efficient use of modern thermocycling machines. Although developed principally for the diagnosis of BVD, the assay should be equally useful for diagnosis of BD in sheep.


pmid: 11042408
title: Phylogenetic, antigenic and clinical characterization of type 2 BVDV from North America
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection continues to have a significant impact upon US cattle producers despite the availability of more than 140 federally licensed vaccines. Detection and control is hampered by viral heterogeneity that results in differences in neutralizing epitopes, cytopathology and virulence. Recently it was found that there are two different genotypes, BVDV1 and BVDV2, among BVDV. BVDV2 isolates make up a significant proportion of the BVDV isolated in North America. Serologically BVDV2 viruses can be distinguished from BVDV1 and border disease viruses. Mab binding also distinguishes between BVDV1, BVDV2 and BDV. Like the BVDV1 viruses, BVDV2 viruses may exist as one of two biotypes, cytopathic or noncytopathic, based on their activity in cultured cells. Cytopathogenic effects on cultured cells does not correlate with virulence in vivo, as BVDV2 associated with hemorrhagic syndrome (HS) are noncytopathic. Variation among BVDV1 and BVDV2 in the 5' UTR is similar. Phylogenetic analysis and differences in virulence suggest that BVDV2 are heterogeneous. Symptoms resulting from BVDV2 infections may range from clinically inapparent to clinically severe. Recently, disease outbreaks associated with acute uncomplicated BVDV infection have been reported in the US and Canada. These outbreaks of clinically severe disease, termed HS, were all associated with viruses from the BVDV2 genotype. Not all BVDV2 isolates cause clinically severe disease. Avirulent BVDV2 isolates do exist and may predominate over virulent BVDV2 in nature. When virulent BVDV2 viruses are inoculated into calves they induce a disease characterized by fever, diarrhea, leukopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, and death. Infection with avirulent BVDV2 results in a reduction of luekocytes that may be accompanied by a low-grade fever. These viruses do not cause clinical disease or a clinical leukopenia.


pmid: 29421490
title: Decline of antibody response in indirect ELISA tests during the periparturient period caused diagnostic gaps in Coxiella burnetii and BVDV serology in pluriparous cows within a Holstein dairy herd
abstract: In cattle, indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) tests are commonly used in serological routine diagnostics. In a longitudinal study design, changes in relative optical density (OD) from drying-off until week 11 after calving were analyzed in blood and milk samples from pluriparous dairy cows (n=21) using a commercial indirect anti-C. burnetii ELISA test. In a second part of this study, changes over time were evaluated in blood and milk samples of 11 of these cows in an indirect ELISA detecting anti-Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) antibodies. Regarding the cows which were still in the herd at the time of calving, blood serological qualitative changes from positive to negative or indeterminate were demonstrated in 7/20 cows (35%) for the anti-C. burnetii indirect ELISA and in 2/10 cows (20%) for the anti-BVDV indirect ELISA, respectively, during the period from 14days ante partum to calving. Relative OD in the anti-C. burnetii and the anti-BVDV indirect ELISA tests followed basically similar courses over time. In blood serum, relative OD initially increased after drying-off, before a drop around calving was observed. After the colostrum period, relative OD in blood serum showed an increase until week 11 of lactation. In colostrum samples, relative OD levels were higher than in milk samples obtained one day before drying-off. After parturition, relative OD in milk decreased until week 6 of lactation in the anti-C. burnetii indirect ELISA and until week 11 in the anti-BVDV indirect ELISA, respectively. In conclusion, blood serological investigations in periparturient dairy cows using indirect ELISA kits should be avoided.


pmid: 29417468
title: Antibody response of growing German Holstein bulls to a vaccination against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is influenced by Fusarium toxin exposure in a non-linear fashion
abstract: The Fusarium toxin deoxynivalenol (DON) is a frequent contaminant of feedstuffs and is supposed to interfere with immune responses. As the relevance for growing bulls is less clear than for other livestock, the trial was designed according to the dose-response principal with a control group fed a diet with background contamination (CON, 0.36 mg DON per kilogram dry matter [DM]) and three groups with increasing concentrations of DON (mg/kg DM); FUS I, 3.01; FUS II, 5.66; FUS III, 8.31. Half of each treatment group was vaccinated against BVDV at days 1 and 21 of the 70 days lasting experiment. Sequential blood samples were collected for determination of antibody titers to BVDV and for hematological and clinical-chemical traits. Antibody response was strongest in group FUS II while group FUS III responded weakest. This group showed the lowest proportion of CD4+ T cells, but also the highest levels of liver lesion indicating enzyme activities in blood. BVDV-vaccination induced a pronounced decrease in red blood count indices, which occurred dose-dependently at a higher level in the FUS-fed groups. The obvious interactions between DON exposure and BVDV-vaccination require further elucidation.


pmid: 19447037
title: Discovery of diphenylmethane analogs as anti-bovine diarrhea viral agents
abstract: Based on antiviral screening of our diphenylmethane derivatives prepared as steroid substitutes, we identified a 1,1-diphenylcyclobutane analog (9) and two diethyldiphenylsilane analogs (12 and 13) as superior lead compounds with potent anti-bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) activity, having 50% effective concentration (EC(50): based on reduction of BVDV replication-induced cell destruction) and 50% cytotoxic concentration (CC(50): based on reduction of viable cell number) values of 6.2-8.4 microM and >100 microM, respectively, in Madin-Darby bovine kidney (MDBK) cells infected with BVDV.


pmid: 12121047
title: Prevalence of antibodies to classical swine fever, Aujeszky's disease, porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome, and bovine viral diarrhoea viruses in wild boars in Croatia
abstract: During the hunting season in February 1999, a total of 44 blood samples were collected from wild boars shot in the area of Moslavacka gora. These blood samples were examined by enzyme immunoassay for the presence of antibodies to classical swine fever (CSFV), Aujeszky's disease (ADV), bovine viral diarrhoea (BVDV), and porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRSV) viruses. Out of 44 serum samples examined, 17 (38.63%) were positive for CSFV, 24 (54.54%) were positive for ADV and two (4.54%) were positive for BVDV. All sera were negative for PRRSV. The results, recorded for the first time in Croatia, supported the hypothesis that wild boar act as a potential reservoir of CSFV, ADV and BVDV, and thus have a role in the epidemiology of these diseases.


pmid: 11679171
title: Estimating transfer of bovine virus-diarrhoea virus in Danish cattle by use of register data
abstract: To study how routinely recorded data (also called "register data") might be used in disease monitoring on a regional or national level, a database for bovine virus-diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was made from existing databases, covering the period January 1995-November 1999. This paper includes a general description of the database, including basic statistics for selected variables. Information was largely complete for cattle herds in the milk-recording scheme (MRS), but only partly available for other herds. A methodology was developed to identify when and how a herd initially was infected. For most herds, it was possible to determine when and how BVDV first was introduced. Among the infected herds, most were already infected by the start of the study. BVDV had been present in 40% of the MRS herds and in 9% of the non-MRS herds. In the MRS herds, most new infections were associated with a dam that had been present in the same herd during gestation. Among the non-MRS herds, most new infections were associated with movement of a persistently infected animal. The monthly number of newly infected herds is presented; it is seen that the incidence declined substantially during the study period.


pmid: 11042414
title: Development of a fetal challenge method for the evaluation of bovine viral diarrhea virus vaccines
abstract: A method to evaluate the efficacy of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) vaccines using a multiple challenge model was investigated. Four pregnant heifers were challenged intranasally with a type I and type II isolate of BVDV at 75 days of gestation. At 60 days postinoculation, virus isolation and RT-PCR from blood and tissues of fetuses indicated that all fetus were persistently infected with both type I and type II isolates. Differing results of detection by PCR and virus isolation between the type I and type II isolates were obtained. These preliminary studies may indicate differences in the level of replication between type I and type II BVDV as well as predilected sites of replication in certain tissues.


pmid: 10342291
title: Bovine herpes virus expressing envelope protein (E2) of bovine viral diarrhea virus as a vaccine candidate
abstract: The gene encoding the envelope protein (E2) of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was expressed under the thymidine kinase (TK) promoter of Korean bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1) isolate. Thymidine kinase negative (TK-) BHV-1 recombinants expressing E2 of BVDV were constructed and the expression of E2 was identified by immunofluorescence and Western blotting. Compared to wild type BHV-1, the recombinant BHV-1 had a delayed cytopathogenic effect in cells. The immunogenicity of the recombinant BHV-1 was examined in guinea pigs and cattle. Although an increase in body temperature was detected for a few days, the inoculated cattle returned to normal temperature with the development of neutralizing antibodies to BVDV.


pmid: 9526856
title: Changes in levels of viremia in cattle persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Virus isolation and serum neutralizing antibody titers were determined over a period of time from samples collected from animals persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). To evaluate over time the ability to detect BVDV by virus isolation from serum or white blood cell preparations, 4 persistently infected calves were monitored from birth until 70 days of age. In 3 of 4 persistently infected calves, virus isolation from serum and white blood cells was negative until approximately 42 days of age, when colostral antibody had declined. The level of viremia in 7 adult (> 12 months) persistently infected animals decreased by 1 10-fold dilution over at least a 2-year period. The level of viremia became undetectable by virus isolation from serum in 1 of the 7 animals examined. This decline was associated with the development of virus neutralizing antibody. Although the level of viremia is fairly stable within persistently infected animals, the presence of specific neutralizing antibody may affect the ability to isolate BVDV. These findings are important when considering diagnostic testing to identify persistently infected animals by virus isolation.


pmid: 8212597
title: Processing of poly-ubiquitin in the polyprotein of an RNA virus
abstract: The RNA genome of several cytopathogenic (cp) strains of the pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) contains ubiquitin coding sequences (ucs). In noncytopathogenic BVDV strains, such insertions are missing. Gene expression of BVDV occurs via synthesis of a polyprotein which is subsequently processed by virus-encoded and cellular proteases. The insertion of ucs in the genomes of cpBVDV strains CP14 and Osloss leads to additional cleavages in the viral polyprotein. The respective processing events are mediated by cellular ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolases (UCHs). Release of monomeric ubiquitin (ubi) from the poly-ubi fragment encoded by CP14 is achieved by cleavage at the C-terminus as well as at the N-terminus of a complete ubi monomer. This result extends the current knowledge about poly-ubi processing. Processing of the polyprotein of CP14 and Osloss by UCHs generates an 80-kDa protein (p80), the marker protein of cpBVD viruses. Thus, the cp phenotype of both strains is apparently caused by the uptake of the ucs in the viral genome. Since cpBVDV strains arise in cattle in the course of a fatal disease, a direct linkage exists between the insertion of ucs and a lethal disease.


pmid: 8111615
title: Morbidity and mortality in a large Irish feedlot; microbiological and serological findings in cattle with acute respiratory disease
abstract: A survey of morbidity and mortality was undertaken in a slatted unit containing 6399 beef cattle over a 6 month period. The mortality rate was 0.78% and the morbidity rate was 12.7%. The interval from arrival to morbidity was 25.5 days +/- 0.9. Significantly more sick cattle were identified on either Mondays or Tuesdays than were seen on Saturdays or Sundays (P < 0.005). The mean interval to mortality (all diseases) was 48.5 days +/- 7.4. Respiratory disease was the most frequently recorded disease and was responsible for 62% of morbidity and 58% of mortality. Samples from 133 cattle, taken as they presented with acute onset respiratory disease, contained antibodies to Bovine Herpes Virus -1(BHV-1) (14.3%), Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) (78%), Bovine Respiratory Syncytial Virus (BRSV) (94%) and Parainfluenza type 1 Virus (P13V) (99%). When the same cattle were resampled 4 to 6 weeks later antibodies were found for BHV-1 (93.2%), BVDV (99.2%), BRSV (100%) and P13V (100%). Eleven of 27 bronchoalveolar lavage samples taken from the above group of cattle exhibited positive fluorescence for BHV-1 but all 27 samples were negative for BVDV, BRSV and P13V. Pasteurella multocida was isolated from eight of the 27 lavage samples and Pasteurella haemolytica from one sample.


pmid: 1846490
title: Viral cytopathogenicity correlated with integration of ubiquitin-coding sequences
abstract: The RNA genomes of cytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolates contain insertions highly homologous to cellular sequences. For two of them the insert was identified as ubiquitin coding sequence. The genome of BVDV Osloss contains exactly one ubiquitin gene monomer. In the case of BVDV CP1 the cellular insertion comprises one complete ubiquitin gene and part of a second monomer. The host cell-derived element in the CP1 genome is embedded in a large duplication of about 2.4 kb of viral sequences. Cellular insertion and duplication were not found in the genome of NCP1, the noncytopathogenic counterpart of CP1. These results strongly suggest that recombination between viral and cellular RNA is responsible for development of the cytopathogenic viruses, which is linked to pathogenesis of a lethal disease in cattle.


pmid: 1645592
title: Detection of cattle infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus using nucleic acid hybridization
abstract: A ribonucleic acid (RNA) hybridization assay to identify cattle infected by bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is described. The RNA probe was derived from the coding region at the 3' end of the genome of the NADL strain of BVDV. Total RNA from infected cell cultures or peripheral blood leukocytes from suspect animals was extracted and applied to nylon membranes with a slot blot apparatus. Peripheral blood leukocytes were tested concurrently for BVDV by virus isolation. The results of hybridization and virus isolation were in agreement for 92% of the cases. When compared with virus isolation, hybridization had a sensitivity of detection of 59.5% and a specificity of 95%. Cross-reactivity to RNA extracts of border disease virus-infected cells was noted. No cross-reactivity was detected to other common bovine viruses (bovine herpesvirus-1, bovine respiratory syncytial virus, parainfluenza-3 virus, and bluetongue virus), to viruses classified in related families (equine arteritis virus and Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus), or to viruses having similar genomic organization (dengue virus type 2 and Japanese encephalitis virus).


pmid: 31386701
title: Mannitol-induced gold nanoparticle aggregation for the ligand-free detection of viral particles
abstract: Traditional virus detection methods require ligands that bind to either viral capsid proteins or viral nucleic acids. Ligands are typically antibodies or oligonucleotides and they are expensive, have limited chemical stability, and can only detect one specific type of virus at a time. Here, the biochemical surface properties of viruses are exploited for ligand-free, nonspecific virus detection. It has been found that the osmolyte mannitol can preferentially aggregate virus, while leaving proteins in solution. This led to the development of a ligand-free detection of virus using gold nanoparticle (AuNP) aggregation. Porcine parvovirus (PPV) was incubated with AuNPs and aggregation of the PPV-AuNP complex with mannitol was detected by dynamic light scattering (DLS). The lowest detectable concentration of PPV was estimated to be 106 MTT50 per mL, which is lower than standard antibody assays. PPV was also detected when swabbed from a dry surface and in the presence of a protein solution matrix. The enveloped bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was also detected using mannitol-induced aggregation of BVDV-coated AuNPs. The lowest detectable concentration of BVDV was estimated to be 104 MTT50 per mL. This demonstrates that gold nanoparticle aggregation can detect virus without the use of specific ligands.


pmid: 23219806
title: Competitive virus assay method for titration of noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea viruses (END⁺ and END⁻ viruses)
abstract: A new, reliable and secure virus assay method, named the competitive virus assay (CVA) method, has been established for the titration of bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDVs) that either show the exaltation of Newcastle disease virus (END) phenomenon or heterologous interference phenomenon (but not the END phenomenon). This method is based on the principle of (1) homologous interference between BVDVs, by using BVDV RK13/E(-) or BVDV RK13/E(+) strains as competitor virus, and (2) END phenomenon and heterologous interference, by using attenuated Newcastle disease virus (NDV) TCND strain as challenge virus. In titration of BVDV END(+) and BVDV END(-) viruses, no significant difference in estimated virus titer was observed between CVA and conventional methods. CVA method demonstrated comparable levels of sensitivity and accuracy as conventional END and interference methods, which require the use of a velogenic Miyadera strain of NDV and vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), both of which are agents of high-risk diseases. As such, the CVA method is a safer alternative, with increased bio-safety and bio-containment, through avoidance of virulent strains that are commonly employed with conventional methods.


pmid: 22513121
title: 5-acetyl-2-arylbenzimidazoles as antiviral agents. Part 4
abstract: Within a project aimed at discovering new Flaviviridae inhibitors, new variously substituted 2-phenylbenzimidazoles were synthesized and evaluated in cell-based assays for cytotoxicity and antiviral activity against viruses representatives of the three genera of the Flaviviridae family, i.e.: Pestivirus (BVDV), Flavivirus (YFV) and Hepacivirus (HCV). Title compounds were also tested against RNA viruses representative of other single-stranded, positive-sense (ssRNA(+)) negative-sense (RNA(-)), or double-stranded (dsRNA) genomes, as well as against representatives of two DNA virus families. Nine compounds showed activity against BVDV (EC(50) = 0.8-8.0 μM), compound 31 being the most potent (EC(50) = 0.80 μM) and selective (SI = CC(50)/EC(50) = >100). When tested in an HCV replicon assay, compound 31 resulted again the most potent, displaying an EC(50) value of 1.11 μM and an SI of 100. Besides inhibiting BVDV, two compounds (35 and 38) showed a moderate activity also against YFV (EC(50) = 13 μM). Interestingly, 35 was moderately active also against RSV (EC(50) = 25 μM).


pmid: 22078277
title: Pestivirus and alphaherpesvirus infections in Swedish reindeer (Rangifer tarandus tarandus L.)
abstract: Herding semi-domesticated reindeer has economic and social value for Sami people in the northern territories of Fennoscandia. However, with the intensification of reindeer husbandry, interspecies transmission of pathogens between reindeer and domestic animals may become a problem, especially for countries such as Sweden, Norway, and Finland where pestivirus and alphaherpesvirus have been eradicated in domestic ruminants. This study, which included 1158 Swedish reindeer, showed relatively high prevalence of antibodies against bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) (32%) and bovine herpesvirus-1 (BoHV-1) (53%). Adult animals were more often seropositive for BVDV and BoHV-1 (50% and 78%, respectively) than were calves (18 and 11%, respectively). While the seroprevalence of alphaherpesvirus was similar in different herding districts, pestivirus seropositivity was highest in the South and diminished towards the North of the Swedish reindeer herding area. High correlation of the seropositivity against both pathogens at both individual and herd levels may indicate possible mutual synergetic effects and may be explained by the immunosuppressive nature of the viruses. While alphaherpesvirus seroprevalence was probably related to putative cervid herpesvirus 2 (CvHV-2), the pestivirus infecting reindeer remains undefined. The virus neutralisation test of reindeer sera using different pestivirus strains, revealed higher titres against Border disease virus strains like 137/4 (BDV-1) and Reindeer-1 (BDV-2) than against BVDV-1. However, the virus was not identified by real time RT-PCR in any of the samples (n=276) from seronegative reindeers. The study showed that pestivirus and alphaherpesvirus infections are endemic in the Swedish reindeer population.


pmid: 8940226
title: Contamination of commercially available fetal bovine sera with bovine viral diarrhea virus genomes: implications for the study of hepatitis C virus in cell cultures
abstract: The establishment of cell cultures for hepatitis C virus (HCV) is important for its study as a human pathogen. However, in reported cell lines, HCV demonstrates low levels of replication detected primarily by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assays. In attempts to culture HCV, an additional complication was observed. From mock-infected cultures, cDNA of appropriate size was obtained by RT-PCR with primers deduced from conserved domains of the 5' noncoding region of HCV. However, sequence analysis revealed that the cDNA was amplified from bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). All of 7 bovine sera tested were contaminated with BVDV. In conclusion, most commercially available bovine sera are contaminated with BVDV and, although there is no evidence that the virus is infectious, bovine sera should be screened for this virus by RT-PCR when used in conjunction with HCV or for the development or production of vaccine.


pmid: 6312929
title: Characterization of the major structural proteins of purified bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was concentrated and purified by a combination of ultrafiltration, hydroextraction using polyethylene glycol and affinity chromatography. A lectin from Crotalaria juncea that has an affinity for galactose was used in the affinity chromatography. Virions of BVDV with classic envelopes were observed by electron microscopy. Four major proteins with estimated molecular weights of 75,000, 66,000, 54,000, and 26,000 were identified in sodium dodecyl sulfate--polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis slab gels. The proteins of 75,000 and 54,000 were glycoproteins as shown by staining with dansyl hydrazine.


pmid: 28093213
title: Characterization of the efficiency and uncertainty of skimmed milk flocculation for the simultaneous concentration and quantification of water-borne viruses, bacteria and protozoa
abstract: In this study, the use of skimmed milk flocculation (SMF) to simultaneously concentrate viruses, bacteria and protozoa was evaluated. We selected strains of faecal indicator bacteria and pathogens, such as Escherichia coli and Helicobacter pylori. The viruses selected were adenovirus (HAdV 35), rotavirus (RoV SA-11), the bacteriophage MS2 and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). The protozoa tested were Acanthamoeba, Giardia and Cryptosporidium. The mean recoveries with q(RT)PCR were 66% (HAdV 35), 24% (MS2), 28% (RoV SA-11), 15% (BVDV), 60% (E. coli), 30% (H. pylori) and 21% (Acanthamoeba castellanii). When testing the infectivity, the mean recoveries were 59% (HAdV 35), 12% (MS2), 26% (RoV SA-11) and 0.7% (BVDV). The protozoa Giardia lamblia and Cryptosporidium parvum were studied by immunofluorescence with recoveries of 18% and 13%, respectively. Although q(RT)PCR consistently showed higher quantification values (as expected), q(RT)PCR and the infectivity assays showed similar recoveries for HAdV 35 and RoV SA-11. Additionally, we investigated modelling the variability and uncertainty of the recovery with this method to extrapolate the quantification obtained by q(RT)PCR and estimate the real concentration. The 95% prediction intervals of the real concentration of the microorganisms inoculated were calculated using a general non-parametric bootstrap procedure adapted in our context to estimate the technical error of the measurements. SMF shows recoveries with a low variability that permits the use of a mathematical approximation to predict the concentration of the pathogen and indicator with acceptable low intervals. The values of uncertainty may be used for a quantitative microbial risk analysis or diagnostic purposes.


pmid: 16840325
title: The NS5A protein of bovine viral diarrhea virus contains an essential zinc-binding site similar to that of the hepatitis C virus NS5A protein
abstract: The recent demonstration that the NS5A protein of hepatitis C virus (HCV) contains an unconventional zinc-binding site with the format Cx(17)CxCx(20)C and the presence of a similar sequence element in the NS5A proteins of members of the Pestivirus genus has led to the hypothesis that the NS5A protein of the pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a zinc-binding protein. A method for the expression and partial purification of BVDV NS5A was developed, and the partially purified protein was analyzed for zinc content by atomic absorption spectroscopy. BVDV NS5A was found to coordinate a single zinc atom per protein molecule. Mutation of any of the four cysteines of the predicted zinc-binding motif eliminated zinc coordination. Furthermore, analysis of mutations at these cysteine residues in the context of a BVDV replicon system indicated that these residues were absolutely essential for RNA replication. The recently determined crystal structure of the N-terminal zinc-binding domain of the HCV NS5A protein, combined with secondary structure predictions of the region surrounding the mapped BVDV zinc-binding region, indicates that the BVDV zinc-binding motif fits the general template Cx(22)CxCx(24)C and likely comprises a three-stranded antiparallel beta-sheet fold. These data highlight the similarities between the Hepacivirus and Pestivirus NS5A proteins and suggest that both proteins perform a not-yet-defined function in RNA replication that requires coordination of a single zinc atom.


pmid: 33157218
title: Investigation of viral pathogens in cattle with bovine respiratory disease complex in Inner Mongolia, China
abstract: As a multifactor disease, the bovine respiratory disease complex (BRDC) causes high morbidity and mortality that is devastating to the cattle industry. To assess viral infections in beef cattle suffering from respiratory diseases in Inner Mongolia, 302 nasal swabs and serum samples were randomly collected from cattle with mild respiratory symptoms between March 2018 and May 2019. Our results showed that the rate of RT-PCR results positive for nucleic acids of viral pathogens in 6 cities was between 54 and 80%.The rates of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1), bovine parainfluenza virus type 3(BPIV3), and bovine respiratory syncytial virus(BRSV)infections were 44.70% (135/302), 24.83% (75/302), 5.63% (17/302), and 6.95% (21/302),respectively. There are also 8.94% (27/302) of samples were positive for BVDV and BHV-1, and 3.97% (12/302) of samples were positive for BPIV3 and BRSV. In addition, the RT-PCR products were sequenced, and phylogenetic analysis based on these sequences was performed. The results indicated that: a) all of the BVDV isolates were BVDV-1 and were classified as BVDV-1a (66.67%) and BVDV-1b (33.33%); b) all of the BHV-1 isolates were classified as subtype 1.1; 44.44% of the isolates were closely related to modified live viral vaccine strains, and 55.56% of the isolates were closer to epidemic strains; c) all of the BPIV3 isolates belonged to BPIV3c; d) all of the BRSV isolates were classified into subgroup III. It is suggested that an important cause of respiratory diseases for beef cattle is viral infection, and phylogenetic analysis can help us choose the proper strain to develop a vaccine.


pmid: 11267789
title: Experimental infection of pregnant ewes with bovine viral diarrhea virus type-2 (BVDV-2): effects on the pregnancy and fetus
abstract: The reproduction effects of bovine viral diarrhea virus type-2 (BVDV-2) infection were investigated in ewes inoculated with a non-cytopathic BVDV-2 isolate at three stages of gestation. Virus inoculation was followed by a transient viremia, accompanied by a transient and mild hyperthermia and nasal discharge in a few animals. Some ewes were sacrificed at different time-points after virus inoculation to study the kinetics of fetal infection. Infectivity and viral antigens were detected in placentomes from day 7 to 36 post-inoculation (pi) and in fetal fluids and tissues between days 10 and 28 pi. Cardiac petechial hemorrhages and hemoperitoneum accompanied by a severe fibrinous ulcerative placentitis were observed in fetuses examined at days 21, 28 and 36 pi. Inoculation of ewes at days 55-60 of gestation resulted in a prolonged virus replication in placentomes and fetal tissues; ewes that were allowed to proceed with pregnancy had 77% of abortions or fetal and perinatal deaths. Seven stillbirths, unviable and viable lambs born to these ewes were virus-positive at birth. Infectious virus was repeatedly isolated from leukocytes of two lambs up to 2 and 6 months of age, indicating they were persistently infected. Ewes inoculated at days 65-70 of gestation had 66.6% of fetal and perinatal losses. Three viable lambs born to these ewes were healthy, BVDV antibody-positive and virus-negative. A transient viral replication in placentomes and in a few fetal tissues, followed by the rise of fetal neutralizing antibodies and virus clearance was the result of inoculating ewes at days 120-125 of gestation. Lambs born to these ewes were healthy, antibody-positive and virus-negative. These results demonstrate that the biology of BVDV-2 infection in pregnant sheep is essentially similar to that of BVDV-1 in pregnant cattle and sheep. These features make this species an attractive animal model for studying the pathogenesis of congenital BVDV-2 infection.


pmid: 18440085
title: Increase in proto-oncogene mRNA transcript levels in bovine lymphoid cells infected with a cytopathic type 2 bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Infection of susceptible animals with bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) can result in an array of disease symptoms that are dependent in part on the strain of infecting virus and the physiological status of the host. BVDV are lymphotrophic and exist as two biotypes. Cytopathic BVDV kill cells outright while noncytopathic strains can readily establish persistent infections. The molecular mechanisms behind these different affects are unknown. To gain a better understanding of the mechanisms of disease, serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE), a powerful method for global gene expression analysis, was employed to examine gene expression changes in BVDV-infected BL3 cells, a bovine B-cell lymphosarcoma cell line. SAGE libraries were constructed from mRNA derived from BL3 cells that were noninfected or infected with the cytopathic BVDV2 strain 296c. Annotation of the SAGE data showed the expression of many genes that are characteristic of B cells and integral to their function. Comparison of the SAGE databases also revealed a number of genes that were differentially expressed. Of particular interest was the increased numbers of transcripts encoding proto-oncogenes (c-fos, c-jun, junB, junD) in 296c-infected cells, all of which are constituents of the AP-1 transcriptional activation complex. Real-time RT-PCR confirmed these results and indicated that the actual increases were larger than that predicted by SAGE. In contrast, there was no corresponding increase in protein levels, but instead a significant decrease of c-jun and junB protein levels in the infected BL3 cells was observed. Rather than an increase in transcription of these genes, it appeared that these proto-oncogenes transcripts accumulated in the BVDV2-infected cells.


pmid: 14746970
title: Infection by Neospora caninum associated with bovine herpesvirus 1 and bovine viral diarrhea virus in cattle from Minas Gerais State, Brazil
abstract: Neospora caninum is a canine parasite which is considered a significant cause of bovine abortion. Two cattle herd groups were serologically studied with the objective of studying the prevalence of infection by N. caninum associated with BHV1 and BVDV infections. In group I, 15 dairy herds (476 samples) naturally infected by the three infectious agents were analyzed,. In group II, three dairy herds (100 samples) of cows vaccinated for two viruses were analyzed, in order to determine the infection prevalence by N. caninum. In the first group, an infection prevalence of 12.61, 34 and 28.3% was determined for N. caninum BHV1 and BVDV, respectively. In the second group, a seropositive prevalence of 46, 85 and 76%, respectively, was determined for N. caninum, BVH1 and BVDV. In the first group, the virus and N. caninum had shown in the first group 4.41% positive samples in association with BVH1, 3.15% with BVDV, and 8.41% with BVH1 and BVDV.


pmid: 12127317
title: Enveloped virus inactivation by caprylate: a robust alternative to solvent-detergent treatment in plasma derived intermediates
abstract: Solvent-detergent treatment, although used routinely in plasma product processing to inactivate enveloped viruses, substantially reduces product yield from the human plasma resource. To improve yields in plasma product manufacturing, a new viral reduction process has been developed using the fatty acid caprylate. As licensure of plasma products warrants thorough evaluation of pathogen reduction capabilities, the present study examined susceptibility of enveloped viruses to inactivation by caprylate in protein solutions with varied pH and temperature. In the immunoglobin-rich solutions from Cohn Fraction II+III, human immunodeficiency virus, Type-1, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and pseudorabies virus were inactivated by caprylate concentrations of >/=9 mM, >/=12 mM, and >/=9 mM, respectively. Compared to solvent-detergent treatment, BVDV inactivation in Fraction II+III solution was significantly faster (20-60 fold) using 16 mM caprylate. Caprylate-mediated inactivation of BVDV was not noticeably affected by temperature within the range chosen manufacturing the immunoglobulin product. In Fraction II+III solutions, IgG solubility was unaffected by </=19 mM caprylate. In albumin solution from Cohn supernatant IV-1, 40 mM caprylate rapidly inactivated BVDV, demonstrating versatility in inactivating enveloped viruses potentially present in other protein solutions. Our data show that caprylate is a robust enveloped virus inactivating agent for immunoglobulins and albumin which may potentially be utilized for other proteins; viral inactivation was not adversely affected by protein content and the buffer composition conditions evaluated. Within the parameters examined, caprylate inactivation of enveloped viruses provided comparable activity or advantages relative to the current, standard solvent-detergent treatment.


pmid: 9152421
title: Characterization of the immune response of cattle against non-cytopathic and cytopathic biotypes of bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Cross-infection studies of normal calves infected with homologous pairs of non-cytopathic and cytopathic bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) showed significant differences in both humoral and cell-mediated immune responses against either biotype over a period of 5 months. Serological assays after primary intranasal inoculation showed striking significant (P < 0.05) differences between biotypes. Neutralizing titres were detected earlier and were much higher with the non-cytopathic strain than with the homologous cytopathic strain. Significant biotype-specific differences were also observed in the lymphocyte proliferative responses of cattle following in vitro stimulation by non-cytopathic/cytopathic BVDV and the non-structural p80 protein (NS3). The secondary immune response seems to be largely influenced by the biotype used for the primary inoculation and only to a lesser extent by the biotype inoculated for the second time after an interval of 91 days. Animals exposed twice to the cytopathic biotype, which exhibited the lowest antibody titres, showed evidence of BVDV-specific cell-mediated immunity as measured by lympho-proliferation against BVDV. In contrast, the antibody response in the subgroup of animals inoculated twice with homologous non-cytopathic virus was inversely correlated with the proliferative responses. These differences in the immune response were not readily apparent for the two other remaining subgroups which had received cytopathic or non-cytopathic biotypes alone following the second inoculation with non-cytopathic or cytopathic viruses, respectively. Taken together, these data suggest that the differences in immune responses against cytopathic or non-cytopathic strains may be due to a Th1/Th2-like regulatory mechanism.


pmid: 8391523
title: Investigation of an epizootic of bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in calves
abstract: Eight of 19 calves born to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)-negative and -immunocompetent dams were determined to be infected with a noncytopathic strain of BVDV. Six of the 8 calves had diarrhea and 2 had no clinical signs of disease. In 3 euthanatized calves, lesions consistent with mucosal disease were found throughout the gastrointestinal tract, and the virus was isolated from the spleen, lymph nodes, and small intestine. In 5 calves, BVDV was isolated from mononuclear cells in blood samples obtained 21 days apart, indicating persistent infection. The virus was not isolated from sera obtained from 2 calves, with chronic nonclinical infections, that had neutralizing antibody titers > or = 1:512 against bovine viral diarrhea-Singer virus and titers > or = 1:256 against the persistent BVDV. Twenty-one days after vaccination with a vaccine that contained inactivated noncytopathic and cytopathic biotypes of BVDV, 4 of 5 persistently infected calves had neutralizing antibody titers < or = 1:4 against the bovine viral diarrhea-Singer virus and their persistent virus. Prior to vaccination, 2 of 11 virus-negative calves had neutralizing antibody titers < or = 1:128 against the bovine viral diarrhea-Singer virus, and after vaccination, only 1 virus-negative calf had a titer < or = 1:512. At 149 days after revaccination and prior to weaning, 4 virus-negative calves had neutralizing antibody titers < or = 1:512 (range, 1:16 to 1:384). Under the specific conditions in this herd, we were not able to detect a beneficial effect of vaccination.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


pmid: 21826833
title: Evaluation of the effects of long-term storage of bovine ear notch samples on the ability of 2 diagnostic assays to identify calves persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Research aimed at optimising diagnostic laboratory procedures is central to the development of effective bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) control programmes. BVDV is a single-stranded RNA virus that crosses the placenta to infect foetuses, resulting in reproductive losses due to foetal death or persistently infected calves that die early in life. Persistently infected animals are widely accepted to be the primary reservoir of BVDV and the largest source of infection. This poses important challenges to overall animal/herd health and can cause major losses to the cattle industry. Long-term storage of bovine ear notch samples from calves persistently infected with BVDV may adversely affect the ability of diagnostic assays to detect the virus efficiently. In order to test this hypothesis, ear notch samples from 7 animals were divided into 2 groups. One set was subjected to prompt formalin fixation and the other set stored either as fresh samples without preservatives at -2 degrees C, or soaked overnight in phosphate buffered saline followed by freezing of the supernatant fluid at -2 degrees C. Frozen ear notches and ear notch supernatant yielded positive results with an antigen-capture, enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (AC-ELISA) for the duration of the study (6 months) and optical density (OD) values remained significantly within range. There was no significant difference between storing fresh ear notch samples or PBS at -2 degrees C. However, positive immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining on formalin fixed ear notches started to fade between Day 17 and Day 29 when stored at room temperature. It was concluded that fresh ear notches could safely be stored at -2 degrees C for a period of 6 months prior to testing for BVD viral antigens.


pmid: 21257463
title: Indications of a relationship between buying-in policy and infectious diseases on dairy farms in Wales
abstract: During the period February to May 2008, bulk milk samples were collected from 57 dairy farms throughout Wales in the framework of a voluntary somatic cell count project. Bulk milk samples were tested for antibodies to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BHV-1) and Leptospira Hardjo, and samples were also tested for the presence of BVDV antigen by PCR. A questionnaire was used to determine whether the herd was open or closed, what the vaccination status was, and to obtain general farm information such as the herd size and average milk yield. Vaccination against BVD, infectious bovine rhinotracheitis and leptospirosis was practised on 37, 12 and 35 per cent of the farms, respectively. The presence of bulk milk antibodies on farms that did not use vaccination was 75 per cent for BVDV, 54 per cent for BHV-2 and 76 per cent for L Hardjo. Open herds had 10 times the odds (95 per cent confidence interval [CI] 1.7 to 59.4)of having bulk milk antibodies for BVDV and 16.7 times the odds (95 per cent CI 2.0 to 49.7) of having bulk milk antibodies to BHV-1 compared with closed herds. A farm with bulk milk antibodies to one disease had significantly higher odds of having bulk milk antibodies to a second disease (P<0.05).


pmid: 23887907
title: Complete genome sequences of both biotypes of a virus pair of bovine viral diarrhea virus subgenotype 1k
abstract: We determined the complete genome sequences of both biotypes of a virus pair of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) subgenotype 1k. The viruses were isolated from a persistently infected calf suffering from mucosal disease. Compared to the noncytopathic biotype, the cytopathic biotype contains an insertion of 84 nucleotides and 22 nucleotide changes.


pmid: 28232427
title: Complete Genome Sequence of a Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Subgenotype 1h Strain Isolated in Italy
abstract: We sequenced the complete genome of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strain UM/126/07. It belongs to subgenotype 1h. The complete genome is composed of 12,196 nucleotides organized as one open reading frame encoding 3,898 amino acids. This is the first report of a full-length sequence of BVDV-1h.


pmid: 11700926
title: Masking of two in vitro immunological assays for Mycobacterium bovis (BCG) in calves acutely infected with non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Acute infection of calves, previously vaccinated with bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG), with non-cytopathic viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) resulted in the temporary suppression of two in vitro assays used to monitor Mycobacterium bovis infection. Lymphocyte proliferation and interferon-gamma production by whole blood cultures containing purified protein derivatives prepared from Mycobacterium avium (PPD-A) and M bovis (PPD-B) were markedly suppressed. The implication is that acute infections of cattle with non-cytopathic BVDV may temporarily compromise diagnostic tests for M. bovis infections and result in a failure to identify cattle with tuberculosis.


pmid: 9234444
title: The use of a mass-action model to validate the output from a stochastic simulation model of bovine viral diarrhoea virus spread in a closed dairy herd
abstract: The spread of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in a closed dairy herd maintained under typical management conditions is studied using two approaches. In the first instance a stochastic computer model is used to simulate the month-to-month changes in the infection status of each animal. These results are contrasted with the results of a mass-action model which uses three differential equations. A comparison of the two approaches indicates that the results are in broad agreement. The stochastic approach has the benefit of providing an estimate of the probability of the infection becoming extinct and the herd becoming BVDV-free for different herd sizes.


pmid: 8176381
title: Detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus p80 protein in subpopulations of bovine leukocytes
abstract: Flow cytometry and two-colour immunofluorescence were used to detect cytoplasmic bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) antigen in leukocytes from viraemic cattle. Monoclonal antibody to the p80 protein of BVDV, a non-structural viral antigen, was used to identify the subpopulations of leukocytes in which viral protein synthesis had occurred. Viral antigen was detected in 23% of peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Monocytes were found to have the highest frequency of infection (35%). A higher proportion of CD2+ T cells (23%) were infected, compared with B cells (11%) or WC1+ gamma delta T cells (11%). No significant differences in percentages of different leukocyte subpopulations in blood were detected in persistently viraemic animals compared with controls.


pmid: 26050566
title: Pestiviruses: old enemies and new challenges
abstract: The genesis for this special issue on pestiviruses was a joint meeting on pestiviruses organized by the US BVDV Symposia Committee and the European Society for Veterinary Virology that was held October 14 and 15, 2014 in Kansas City, MO. The theme of the meeting was "Pestiviruses: Old enemies and new challenges". The impetus for this joint effort was the recognition that regional approaches to disease control are at odds with the worldwide traffic in animal products and biologics. Further, the control of newly recognized pestiviruses, such as HoBi-like viruses, is more effective when approached as a global challenge rather than any one nation's problem. The joint meeting featured talks by researchers from North America, South America, Australia and Europe. The papers in this issue arose from keynote talks presented at the joint meeting and are organized around the following themes; pestiviruses and the immune system, genetic variability, the emergence of new pestiviruses and pestivirus control programs.


pmid: 21778667
title: Epidemiological survey of Border disease virus among sheep from northern districts of Japan
abstract: The first epidemiological survey of Border disease virus (BDV) was undertaken in small ruminants in Japan. Ovine sera, collected from the northern prefectures of Hokkaido, Aomori and Iwate, were examined for the presence of antibodies against BDV using the neutralization peroxidase-linked antibody test. Twenty-nine (17.6%) of one hundred and sixty-five samples were seropositive for BDV. Results were specific, excluding cross-reactions with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Only one sample (0.6%) was positive for BVDV, and was negative for BDV. Despite serological evidence of virus circulation, there have been no clinical cases of border disease in sheep in Japan. Although no diagnostic measures were performed, the infection did not appear to be associated with a reduction in ewe fertility nor with lamb mortality.


pmid: 19246081
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) associated with single in vivo-derived and in vitro-produced preimplantation bovine embryos following artificial exposure
abstract: The objective was to determine the average amount of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) associated with single in vivo-derived and in vitro-produced bovine embryos following recommended processing procedures for embryos. In vivo-derived and in vitro-produced bovine embryos at 7d post-fertilization were exposed (for 2h) to 2 x 10(5-7) cell culture infective dose (CCID(50))/mL of SD-1 (a noncytopathic, Type 1a strain of BVDV), and then washed according to International Embryo Transfer Society (IETS) guidelines prior to testing. Of the 87 in vivo-derived embryos tested, 27% were positive for virus by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). The range in amount of virus associated with 99% of the contaminated embryos was <or=6.62+/-1.57 copies/5 microL; 90% of the contaminated embryos had <or=4.64+/-1.57 viral copies/5 microL of embryo-associated virus, using tolerance intervals (P<0.05). The SEM was 0.33 and the mean of averages was 1.12/5 microL. Of the 87 in vitro-produced embryos, 42% were positive for virus. The range in amount of virus associated with 99% of the contaminated embryos was <or=3.44+/-0.89 copies/5 microL; 90% of the contaminated embryos had <or=2.40+/-0.89 viral copies/5 microL of embryo-associated virus using tolerance intervals (P<0.05; S.E.M. was 0.14 and the mean of averages was 0.55/5 microL). Therefore, although many embryos were positive for virus, there were limited numbers of copies, thereby posing doubt regarding their potential for contamination following embryo transfer.


pmid: 10217598
title: An experimental multivalent bovine virus diarrhea virus E2 subunit vaccine and two experimental conventionally inactivated vaccines induce partial fetal protection in sheep
abstract: The primary aim of a bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV) vaccine is to prevent transplacental transmission of virus. We studied the efficacy of two experimental conventionally inactivated vaccines, based on BVDV strain Singer and containing a different antigen amount, against three antigenically different BVDV strains in a vaccination-challenge experiment in sheep. We also studied the efficacy of an experimental multivalent E2 subunit vaccine against four antigenically different BVDV strains. The vaccine contained the glycoproteins E2 of BVDV strains that belong to antigenic groups IA, IB and II. All three vaccines induced neutralizing antibodies against all challenge strains. Only the conventional vaccine that contained the highest antigen amount induced complete protection against homologous challenge. Neither of the conventional vaccines provided complete protection against heterologous challenge. The multivalent subunit vaccine induced partial protection against the homologous challenge strains. However, the immune response did inhibit virus replication in ewes, as shown by the results of the virus titrations.


pmid: 18432109
title: Experimental superinfection of a Lesser Malayan mousedeer (Tragulus javanicus) persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: A Lesser Malayan mousedeer (Tragulus javanicus), persistently infected with noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type 1f, was experimentally superinfected with a cytopathogenic isolate of BVDV type 1c, which antigenically partially matched the endogenous strain. Within the observational period of 125 days after superinfection, the animal did not demonstrate any clinical signs of the disease and/or significant changes in blood values. Neutralizing antibodies were detected at 35 and 42 days postinfection. The isolate causing the superinfection was found in feces, nasal swabs, and saliva starting from day 29 and at various times postchallenge. Macroscopic or histologic examination did not reveal mucosal disease-like lesions, despite the detection of the cytopathogenic isolate in the salivary gland, rumen, abomasum, kidney, and superficial prescapular lymph node. Results indicate that the cytopathogenic BVDV strain, which was used in the superinfection, persisted in the viremic animal without causing disease within the observation period.


pmid: 16182393
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus control in Finland 1998-2004
abstract: The bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) situation among dairy herds and suckler-cow herds was monitored annually from 1998 to 2004. Bulk-tank milk (BTM) samples from all dairy herds and serum samples from beef animals at slaughter were examined for BVDV antibodies using a commercial indirect ELISA test. New BTM antibody-positive herds and herds with a history of BTM antibodies, but previously untested were sampled individually and tested for evidence of BVDV. The reason for the antibody-positivity or the source of infection was investigated. The percentage of BTM antibody-positive herds ranged from 0.45% in 2000 to 0.15% in 2003. The number of herds with persistently infected (PI) animals ranged from 10 in 2001 to 0 in 2003. The most common cause for a herd to become BTM antibody-positive was the purchase of a seropositive animal or a PI animal or a dam carrying a PI fetus. The new BVD decree of 2004 will be described in brief.


pmid: 9037733
title: Genetic characterization of ruminant pestiviruses: sequence analysis of viral genotypes isolated from sheep
abstract: Historically, the genus pestivirus was believed to contain three species of viruses; bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), border disease virus (BDV) and classical swine fever virus (CSFV). However, based on limited sequence analysis of a small number of pestiviral isolates from domestic livestock, evidence has recently emerged indicating that at least four distinct genotypes exist. In an attempt to gain a better understanding of the degree of viral variation among ruminant pestiviruses, the entire structural gene coding region of an ovine pestivirus. BD31, genome encompassing 3358 nucleotides was cloned and sequenced. Sequence analysis revealed that BD31 shares less than 71% nucleotide similarity with other pestiviruses, suggesting, that BD31 is distinct from BVDV, CSFV as well as other ovine and bovine pestiviruses currently referred to as BVDV type II. Based on this data, BD31 is the first North American pestivirus isolate that falls under the category true BDV. Results from the analysis of the nucleotide sequence of the E0-E1 coding region of six additional ruminant pestiviruses identified the existence of three distinct virus genotypes in North America. Thus, among ruminent pestiviruses, bovine isolates can be grouped into two genotypes, namely types 1 and 4, whereas ovine isolates fall into genotypes 1, 3 and 4.


pmid: 6300980
title: Pathogenesis of bovine viral diarrhoea-mucosal disease: distribution and significance of BVDV antigen in diseased calves
abstract: The distribution of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) antigen in tissues of animals with acute and chronic bovine viral diarrhoea-mucosal disease (BVD-MD) was examined using improved indirect immunofluorescence and indirect immunoperoxidase staining methods on cryostat and paraffin wax tissue sections. In lymphoid tissues the antigen was principally located in cells belonging to the mononuclear located in cells belonging to the mononuclear phagocyte system and in other cells with antigen-retaining capacity. The distribution of the infected cells within a particular organ varied with the clinical stage. In the non-lymphoid organs the antigen was detected in cells of the mononuclear phagocyte system as well as in epithelial cells. An apparent time lag between initial antigen-detection and progression of pathological manifestations was noticed in the intestinal mucosa and in the keratinized epithelia of the upper digestive system and in the skin. Only limited involvement of blood vessels was observed in the tissues investigated. In the light of the mononuclear phagocyte system being an apparent common denominator for all the different tissues involved in the morphological alterations which characterise BVD-MD, a possible pathogenesis of BVDV-MD is discussed.


pmid: 6246564
title: Experimental infection of calves with two strains of bovine virus diarrhoea virus: virus recovery and clinical reactions
abstract: Fifteen calves were inoculated with a mixture of two strains of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV), the cytopathogenic NADL strain which had been passaged over 20 times n vitro, and the non-cytopathogenic FCS strain, passaged only once after isolation from fetal calf serum. In a second experiment, seven calves received the NADL strain, and eight the FCS strain. The clinical and virological results of the two experiments were compared. In dual infections, the NADL strain interfered with the replication of the FCS strain resulting in less severe disease than the FCS strain alone. The FCS-BVDV was recovered from nasopharyngeal swabs and buffy coat cells whereas the NADL-BVDV was recovered only from nasopharyngeal swabs. The cytopathogenicity of the two strains did not change after passage in vivo. The differences observed are discussed in relation to cultural history and cytopathogenicity.


pmid: 19746658
title: Experimental fetal challenge using type II bovine viral diarrhea virus in cattle vaccinated with modified-live virus vaccine
abstract: Nineteen open heifers or cows were vaccinated 45 days prior to breeding with a modified-live bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) vaccine. An additional six animals were not vaccinated and served as controls. All 25 animals were estrus-synchronized and bred. At 75 days of gestation, the 25 pregnant animals were experimentally infected with a type II isolate of BVDV by intranasal inoculation. At 75 days after inoculation, the animals were euthanized and each fetus was removed and retained for sampling. Virus isolation was accomplished from fetal tissues (spleen, thymus, and small intestine). Type II BVDV was isolated from the fetuses collected from all six unvaccinated control animals and from eight of 19 fetuses from vaccinated animals, which were determined to be persistently infected following experimental challenge.


pmid: 11087098
title: Properties of the bovine viral diarrhoea virus replicase in extracts of infected MDBK cells
abstract: An assay for the bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) replicase was developed using extracts from BVDV-infected cells. The replicase activity was maximal approximately 8 h post-infection as measured by the generation of a genomic length radiolabelled RNA. Using a semi-denaturing gel system, three virus-specific in vitro radiolabelled nascent RNA species were identified. A fast-migrating RNA was demonstrated to be the double-stranded replicative form (RF). A second form was shown to be a partially single-stranded/partially double-stranded RNA, characteristic of the replicative intermediate (RI). A third form, which was often undetectable, migrated between the RF and RI and was probably genomic viral RNA. The optimal replicase activity was dependent on 5-10 mM Mg2+ and although it was also active in 1-2 mM Mn2+ it was inhibited at higher concentrations. The optimum KCl concentration for labelling of the RI and RF were different, suggestive of at least two distinct replicase activities. These results are supportive of a semi-conservative model of BVDV RNA replication.


pmid: 11042405
title: The genetic basis for cytopathogenicity of pestiviruses
abstract: Two biotypes of pestiviruses, cytopathogenic (cp) and noncp viruses, can be distinguished by their effects on tissue culture cells. Identification of cp bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has been frequently reported since antigenically closely related noncp and cp BVDV can be isolated from cattle with fatal mucosal disease (MD) and are called a virus pair. In contrast to the BVDV system, only few cp border disease virus (BDV) and cp classical swine fever virus (CSFV) strains have been described. Serological analyses and sequence comparison studies showed that cp pestiviruses arise from noncp viruses by mutation. Elaborate studies during the last 10 years revealed that in most cases RNA recombination is responsible for the generation of the cp viruses. Recent results showed a second way for the development of a cp pestivirus which is based on the introduction of a set of point mutations within the NS2 gene.


pmid: 10487236
title: Susceptibility of bovine naked 2- and 4-cell embryos and hatched blastocysts produced in vitro to infection with noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: To investigate the susceptibility of early bovine embryos to noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus (NCP BVDV), 2- and 4-cell embryos produced in vitro from which zona pellucida had been removed by pronase treatment, and hatched blastocysts were exposed to 10(6) TCID50/m/ of NCP BVDV No. 12 strain. The virus was detected in all embryo samples immediately prior to cultivation but not in the medium. After 24-hr culture, the virus was isolated from four media and two embryo samples in four experiments in the blastocyst group, and the viral antigen was demonstrated in the cytoplasm of the embryo cells by the immunofluorescent technique. By contrast, no virus was recovered from, or viral antigen detected in samples from the 2- and 4-cell embryo group in any of the experiments, even though they were exposed to the virus after removal of the zona pellucida. These findings suggest that 2- and 4-cell embryos are unlikely to be susceptible to NCP BVDV, but that blastocysts are capable of being infected with the virus. hatched blastocyst, noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus.


pmid: 10077834
title: Induction of humoral and cellular immune responses in mice by a recombinant fowlpox virus expressing the E2 protein of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: A recombinant fowlpox virus (rFPV/E2) expressing the E2 protein of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was constructed and characterized. Mice were immunized with recombinant virus and both humoral and cellular immune responses were studied. rFPV/E2 induced BVDV-specific antibodies which were detected by ELISA. In addition, mouse sera were shown to neutralize BVDV. A cytokine ELISA assay revealed that mice vaccinated with rFPV/E2 induced 7-fold more interferon-gamma than parental fowlpox virus.


pmid: 9498617
title: Identification of bovine viral diarrhea virus nonstructural polypeptide NS4B/P38
abstract: The bovine pestivirus polyprotein is processed into at least 11 mature polypeptides. Previous studies with polyprotein region-specific antiserum raised against beta-galactosidase fusion proteins or synthetic peptides allowed the assignment of viral non-structural proteins to specific segments of the BVDV genome. However, the gene product from the NS4B/P38 region of the viral genome remained to be demonstrated directly. BVDV cDNA fragments predicted to encode part of NS4B/P38 (from codon 2521 to 2838 of the BVDV open reading frame) and a portion of NS5A/P58 (from codon 3008 to 3340) were expressed as glutathione S-transferase (GST) fusion proteins in Escherichia coli. Polyclonal rabbit antibodies prepared against each of the purified fusion proteins, GST-2521-2838 and GST-3008-3340, were used to immunoprecipitate viral polypeptides present in BVDV-infected cell lysates. Rabbit antiserum to GST-2521-2838 bound a polypeptide of 38 kDa identified as the mature NS4B/P38 polypeptide; while anti GST-3008-3340 lacked this specificity and bound NS5A/P58. Moreover, both antisera recognized a 96 kDa polypeptide, previously identified as a NS4B-NS5A/PP96 precursor. The function of the newly identified and highly conserved NS4B/P38 protein in viral replication remains to be determined.


pmid: 1788930
title: Production and characterization of monoclonal antibodies against excretory-secretory products of Fasciola hepatica
abstract: Four monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) (9.49, 24.27, 46.71 and 179.57) were produced against Fasciola hepatica excretory-secretory products. Isotype analysis revealed the antibodies to be IgM, IgG3, IgG1, and IgM. In immunoblot assays, the mAbs recognized different antigenic polypeptides migrating between 29 and 180 kDa. Specificity of the mAbs was evaluated by ELISA against antigens of Fascioloides magna, Anoplocephala magna, Stichorchis subtriquetrus, Haemonchus contortus, sheep liver extract (SLE), bovine liver extract (BLE), bovine serum albumin (BSA), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and Madin-Darby bovine kidney (MDBK) cells. Monoclonals 9.49 and 24.27 were specific, and reacted only with Fasciola hepatica antigens. However, mAb 46.71 cross-reacted with antigens of Fascioloides magna, A. magna, Stichorchis subtriquetrus, and H. contortus but not with SLE, BLE, BSA, BVDV or MDBK cells. Monoclonal antibody 179.57 cross-reacted with Fascioloides magna, A. magna, S. subtriquetrus, H. contortus, SLE, and BLE, but not with BSA, BVDV, or MDBK cells.


pmid: 9210932
title: Distribution of antigen of noncytopathogenic and cytopathogenic bovine virus diarrhea virus biotypes in the intestinal tract of calves following experimental production of mucosal disease
abstract: Mucosal disease can be experimentally induced by inoculating calves persistently viremic with noncytopathogenic (ncp) Bovine Virus Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) with an antigenetically closely related cytopathogenic (cp) BVDV strain. Calves suffering from mucosal disease develop severe intestinal lesions causing breakdown of the gastrointestinal barrier and death. Knowledge about tissue distribution of ncp/cp biotypes of BVDV may contribute to the understanding of the pathogenesis of these lesions. Distribution of cpBVDV versus ncpBVDV was demonstrated in the intestinal tract of nine calves with experimentally induced mucosal disease and in five persistently viremic calves. Biotypes were distinguished immunohistochemically in organ tissues using monoclonal antibodies against marker epitopes on the viral surface glycoprotein gp53. In persistently viremic calves ncpBVDV was present in a few epithelial cells, mononuclear cells and intramural ganglia. A multifocal reaction was observed in vascular walls. In calves with mucosal disease a striking increase of antigen containing cells occurred. Viral antigen in these cells reacted with marker antibodies for cpBVDV. A distinct tissue distribution of biotypes was observed in intramural ganglia and duodenal glands. Severe tissue damage was correlated to the presence of cpBVDV antigen. This indicates the importance of cpBVDV for the development of lesions. Interactions of cpBVDV and immunemediated mechanisms will need further investigation.


pmid: 27161176
title: A combined in silico/in vitro approach unveils common molecular requirements for efficient BVDV RdRp binding of linear aromatic N-polycyclic systems
abstract: In this work, we present and discuss a comprehensive set of both newly and previously synthesized compounds belonging to 5 distinct molecular classes of linear aromatic N-polycyclic systems that efficiently inhibits bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection. A coupled in silico/in vitro investigation was employed to formulate a molecular rationale explaining the notable affinity of all molecules to BVDV RNA dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) NS5B. We initially developed a three-dimensional common-feature pharmacophore model according to which two hydrogen bond acceptors and one hydrophobic aromatic feature are shared by all molecular series in binding the viral polymerase. The pharmacophoric information was used to retrieve a putative binding site on the surface of the BVDV RdRp and to guide compound docking within the protein binding site. The affinity of all compounds towards the enzyme was scored via molecular dynamics-based simulations, showing high correlation with in vitro EC50 data. The determination of the interaction spectra of the protein residues involved in inhibitor binding highlighted amino acids R295 and Y674 as the two fundamental H-bond donors, while two hydrophobic cavities HC1 (residues A221, I261, I287, and Y289) and HC2 (residues V216, Y303, V306, K307, P408, and A412) fulfill the third pharmacophoric requirement. Three RdRp (K263, R295 and Y674) residues critical for drug binding were selected and mutagenized, both in silico and in vitro, into alanine, and the affinity of a set of selected compounds towards the mutant RdRp isoforms was determined accordingly. The agreement between predicted and experimental data confirmed the proposed common molecular rationale shared by molecules characterized by different chemical scaffolds in binding to the BVDV RdRp, ultimately yielding compound 6b (EC50 = 0.3 μM; IC50 = 0.48 μM) as a new, potent inhibitor of this Pestivirus.


pmid: 29264821
title: Description of risk factors associated with the detection of BVDV antibodies in Brazilian pig herds
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infects ruminants as primary hosts. However, other animals like pigs are susceptible. This study was conducted to investigate seroprevalence and risk factors associated with the detection of BVDV antibodies in pig herds. A total of 1.705 serum samples of 33 finisher herds, from seven Brazilian states, were collected in slaughterhouses. The samples were tested by virus neutralization (VN) test. In total, 5.35% (91/1.705) were positive and 64% (21/33) of the herds had positive animals. A significant association with "trucks are not cleaned and disinfected" and "visitors do not respect 72-h interval between visits to farms" (P < 0.05) was found in association with detection of BVDV-2 antibodies. This study suggests that important biosecurity gaps are present in Brazilian pig farms, as the presence of BVDV antibodies in pigs suggests (direct or indirect) contact with population(s) of ruminant species. Closing biosecurity gaps prevents spread of BVDV and other pathogens such as foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) between pig and ruminant farms. This data should be taken in account by CSF surveillance programs, once cross-reaction in serologic tests between classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and BVDV antibodies has been shown to occur.


pmid: 16771222
title: The effect of infection of hatched blastocyst bovine embryos with border disease and bovine viral diarrhea viruses
abstract: The effect of infection with teratogenic viruses at early stages of pregnancy is not fully understood. This study aimed to look at the effect of infection with teratogenic viruses such as bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and border disease virus (BDV), on early stage embryos at the hatched blastocyst stage. BVDV and BDV are known to cross the placenta of infected mothers and lead to congenital defects and death of developing fetuses. This study can be a good model for better understanding the effects of other teratogenic viruses such as Rubella virus in humans.


pmid: 10574071
title: Serological survey for antibodies against selected infectious agents among fallow deer (Dama dama) in central Italy
abstract: Sera were collected from 224 fallow deer (Dama dama) in reserves in central Italy. Samples were tested for antibodies against Chlamydia spp., Brucella spp. and Coxiella spp. with the complement fixation (CF) test. Indirect immunofluorescence was used to test for antibodies against Borrelia spp. and agglutination tests were conducted for Leptospira interrogans antibodies. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) tests were used to detect antibodies against bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1) and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). All samples were negative for antibodies against Brucella spp., L. interrogans, Coxiella spp. and BHV-1. Four samples (1.8%) had antibodies against Chlamydia spp., nine (4%) against Borrelia spp. and 10 (4.5%) against BVDV. These results indicate that fallow deer in central Italy have a low rate of exposure to pathogens typical of domestic livestock.


pmid: 9368990
title: Bovine respiratory tract disease caused by bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Although several viruses and bacteria are capable of inducing bovine respiratory tract disease, a pivotal organism in the cause of this complex disease may be bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Circumstantial evidence has long supported this hypothesis. It is frequently present in diseased respiratory tract tissues often together with other viruses or bacteria. Field observations suggest marked synergism occurs. Researchers have confirmed that, in most instances, the virus itself elicits only a mild respiratory tract disease in susceptible calves, but some strains may be much more pneumo-pathogenic than others. Experimental evidence now supports the hypothesis, that BVDV markedly enhances respiratory tract disease caused by IBRV, BRSV, or Pasteurella haemolytica; that it impairs pulmonary immunity; and that it, by itself, may produce mild respiratory tract disease.


pmid: 8789057
title: Demonstration and genotyping of pestivirus RNA from mammalian cell lines
abstract: We examined 20 cell lines of various animal origins for the presence of pestivirus contamination by the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and found 15 (75%) cell lines were positive. The RT-PCR products of the 5' untranslated region (UTR) of pestivirus genome were sequenced and subjected to genotyping. Stem-loop structures at three variable regions in the 5' UTR render genotyping of the contaminated pestiviruses. Bovine cell lines tested were all contaminated with genotypes I, II, or III of bovine diarrhea virus (BVDV). Cell lines of canine, feline, and primate origin were contaminated with genotype II of BVDV. Cell line Ch1Es of caprine origin was contaminated with border disease virus (BDV).


pmid: 26132819
title: Genetic Variability of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus and Evidence for a Possible Genetic Bottleneck during Vertical Transmission in Persistently Infected Cattle
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a Pestivirus in the family Flaviviridae, is an economically important pathogen of cattle worldwide. The primary propagators of the virus are immunotolerant persistently infected (PI) cattle, which shed large quantities of virus throughout life. Despite the absence of an acquired immunity against BVDV in these PI cattle there are strong indications of viral variability that are of clinical and epidemiological importance. In this study the variability of E2 and NS5B sequences in multiple body compartments of PI cattle were characterized using clonal sequencing. Phylogenetic analyses revealed that BVDV exists as a quasispecies within PI cattle. Viral variants were clustered by tissue compartment significantly more often than expected by chance alone with the central nervous system appearing to be a particularly important viral reservoir. We also found strong indications for a genetic bottleneck during vertical transmission from PI animals to their offspring. These quasispecies analyses within PI cattle exemplify the role of the PI host in viral propagation and highlight the complex dynamics of BVDV pathogenesis, transmission and evolution.


pmid: 12491111
title: Prevention of transplacental infection of bovine foetus by bovine viral diarrhoea virus through vaccination
abstract: Results are presented for an experimental validation of the efficacy of an EU licensed, inactivated bovine viral diarrhoea virus vaccine (Bovilis BVDV). This study was designed to assess the quality of efficacy 6 months after a single course of vaccination (two intramuscular doses a month apart). A natural challenge at about 87 days of gestation by 3 persistently infected carrier heifers rapidly infected all experimental heifers. This resulted in transplacental BVDV infection of all 7 unvaccinated dams whereas 11 immunised dams produced 9 live-born calves and 2 aborted foetuses from which no BVDV could be recovered.


pmid: 10535997
title: Hepatitis C virus and other flaviviridae viruses enter cells via low density lipoprotein receptor
abstract: Endocytosis of the Flaviviridae viruses, hepatitis C virus, GB virus C/hepatitis G virus, and bovine viral diarrheal virus (BVDV) was shown to be mediated by low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptors on cultured cells by several lines of evidence: by the demonstration that endocytosis of these virus correlated with LDL receptor activity, by complete inhibition of detectable endocytosis by anti-LDL receptor antibody, by inhibition with anti-apolipoprotein E and -apolipoprotein B antibodies, by chemical methods abrogating lipoprotein/LDL receptor interactions, and by inhibition with the endocytosis inhibitor phenylarsine oxide. Confirmatory evidence was provided by the lack of detectable LDL receptor on cells known to be resistant to BVDV infection. Endocytosis via the LDL receptor was shown to be mediated by complexing of the virus to very low density lipoprotein or LDL but not high density lipoprotein. Studies using LDL receptor-deficient cells or a cytolytic BVDV system indicated that the LDL receptor may be the main but not exclusive means of cell entry of these viruses. Studies on other types of viruses indicated that this mechanism may not be exclusive to Flaviviridae but may be used by viruses that associate with lipoprotein in the blood. These findings provide evidence that the family of LDL receptors may serve as viral receptors.


pmid: 9879534
title: Anti-viral effect of interferon-alpha on bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: To get basic information to control persistent virus infection among domestic animals by cytokines, the antiviral activity of four natural human cytokines against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was evaluated. Normal bovine peripheral blood mononuclear leukocytes (PBML) and fetal bovine muscular cells (FBMC) were treated with varying doses of human interferon (IFN)-alpha, IFN-gamma, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and TNF-beta. The antiviral activity in treated cells was measured by the titration of virus infectivity in comparison with non-treated controls. IFN-alpha significantly suppressed virus growth in both PBML and FBMC. The growth of two cytopathogenic and two noncytopathogenic strains was suppressed in the presence of more than 10(3) u/ml of IFN-alpha. Addition of either TNF-alpha or TNF-beta to IFN-alpha did not potentiate the suppressive effect. IFN-alpha also suppressed the replication of BVDV in PBML from cattle persistently infected with BVDV.


pmid: 8059512
title: Severe disease in adult dairy cattle in three UK dairy herds associated with BVD virus infection
abstract: During 1993 outbreaks of diarrhoea in adult dairy cows in three geographically unrelated herds were found to be caused by bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). The affected animals showed signs of acute watery diarrhoea, agalactia and pyrexia (39.4 to 42 degrees C). Ulceration of the buccal mucosa, a mucoid nasal discharge and stiffness were inconsistent signs. The disease spread rapidly in each case. The diagnosis was confirmed by the isolation of non-cytopathic BVDV from blood and tissues and by the demonstration of significantly rising titres to BVDV by an ELISA. The highest morbidity recorded was 40 per cent with one herd experiencing a 10 per cent mortality. There was no increased incidence of abortion in any of the herds, either at the time of or subsequent to the outbreaks of diarrhoea. In one herd the purchase of a persistently viraemic heifer 14 days before the outbreak was thought to be the source of infection, but in the other two herds the source was not established.


pmid: 1656820
title: Detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus, using degenerate oligonucleotide primers and the polymerase chain reaction
abstract: A technique for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) from circulating blood leukocytes, using the polymerase chain reaction, is described. The published nucleotide sequences of 2 strains of BVDV and that of hog cholera virus were aligned and the information was used to design oligonucleotides coding for 2 regions of amino acid homology. The oligonucleotides were a mixed population including all possible codons for the conserved amino acids. These degenerate oligonucleotides were used in the polymerase chain reaction to detect viral RNA in cells infected in vitro, or in circulating blood leukocytes from infected animals. Virus was detected in over 60 samples from diverse isolates. The detection of BVDV by the polymerase chain reaction is a rapid, sensitive, and specific technique, which represents an improvement over existing technology.


pmid: 25005673
title: Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis in a calf with nephrotic syndrome
abstract: A 2-month-old Japanese black calf was presented with a history of weight loss, exophthalmos and subcutaneous oedema of the brisket. Urinalysis and serum biochemistry showed proteinuria and hypoproteinaemia suggestive of nephrotic syndrome. Microscopically, lesions in the kidney were characterized by proliferation of mesangial cells and diffuse thickening of the glomerular basement membranes with the appearance of double contours. Immune complex deposits were confirmed by electron microscopy and immunofluorescence using reagents specific for bovine immunoglobulin G, complement factor C3 and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). Consequently, the glomerular lesion in this case was diagnosed as membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis. BVDV type 1 was detected in serum by nested reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. Viral antigen was also identified in the glomeruli by immunofluorescence. These results suggest that BVDV may have been the cause of immune complex glomerulonephritis in this calf.


pmid: 23474586
title: Monitoring the bulk milk antibody response to BVDV: the effects of vaccination and herd infection status
abstract: Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) is a pestivirus in the flaviviridae family which affects cattle worldwide. Bulk milk (BM) antibody testing is frequently used as a relatively quick method of assessing herd BVDV exposure; however, an understanding of the effects of vaccination and historic infection is essential for test interpretation. This study investigated the trends exhibited by monthly BM antibody analysis in 14 herds split into three categories. Category 1 herds (vaccinating/no persistently infected (PI) animals) began the study with mid-positive BM antibody titres and experienced an estimated increase of 0.007 optical density (OD) units per month (equating to a rise of 0.35 OD units in 50 months). Category 2 herds (not vaccinating/no PI animals) began the study with mid-positive BM antibody titres and experienced an estimated decrease of 0.005 OD units per month with antibody levels in one category 2 herd taking 1290 days to decrease from mid-positive to negative. Category 3 herds (vaccinating/PI animals present) began the study with high BM antibody titres which plateaued within this range throughout the 50-month observation period. Vaccination was observed to cause transient increases in BM antibody in a number of herds in categories 1 and 3.


pmid: 19793901
title: Cellular targeting of engineered heterologous antigens is a determinant factor for bovine herpesvirus 4-based vaccine vector development
abstract: In a previous study, an apathogenic strain of bovine herpesvirus 4 (BoHV-4) cloned as a bacterial artificial chromosome and expressing a chimeric peptide (gE2/gD) as a secreted form was described. Recombinant virus-inoculated animals produced antibodies against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) gE2 and BoHV-1 gD. However, neutralizing antibodies were produced only against BVDV, not against BoHV-1. In the present work a recombinant BoHV-4 expressing a membrane-linked form of gE2/gD chimeric peptide was constructed, and inoculated rabbits produced serum-neutralizing antibodies against both BVDV and BoHV-1. Protein cell sorting and targeting are a very important issue when immunodominant antigens are engineered for recombinant virus vaccine development.


pmid: 26132819
title: Genetic Variability of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus and Evidence for a Possible Genetic Bottleneck during Vertical Transmission in Persistently Infected Cattle
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a Pestivirus in the family Flaviviridae, is an economically important pathogen of cattle worldwide. The primary propagators of the virus are immunotolerant persistently infected (PI) cattle, which shed large quantities of virus throughout life. Despite the absence of an acquired immunity against BVDV in these PI cattle there are strong indications of viral variability that are of clinical and epidemiological importance. In this study the variability of E2 and NS5B sequences in multiple body compartments of PI cattle were characterized using clonal sequencing. Phylogenetic analyses revealed that BVDV exists as a quasispecies within PI cattle. Viral variants were clustered by tissue compartment significantly more often than expected by chance alone with the central nervous system appearing to be a particularly important viral reservoir. We also found strong indications for a genetic bottleneck during vertical transmission from PI animals to their offspring. These quasispecies analyses within PI cattle exemplify the role of the PI host in viral propagation and highlight the complex dynamics of BVDV pathogenesis, transmission and evolution.


pmid: 17983635
title: Development and evaluation of a MAb based competitive-ELISA using helicase domain of NS3 protein for sero-diagnosis of bovine viral diarrhea in cattle and buffaloes
abstract: The aim of this study was to develop a competitive inhibition ELISA (CI-ELISA) for detection of antibodies to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) using the helicase domain of NS3 (non-structural) protein and monoclonal antibody (MAb) against it and to estimate its sensitivity and specificity using two commercial ELISA kits as independent references. The 45-kDa helicase domain of NS3 protein of BVDV was expressed in Escherichia coli and 18MAbs were developed against it. MAb-11G8 was selected for use in CI-ELISA on the basis of maximum inhibition (90%) obtained with BVDV type 1 infected calf serum. Based on the distribution of percent inhibition of known negative sera (n=166), a cut-off value was set at 40% inhibition. In testing 914 field serum samples of cattle (810) and buffaloes (104), the CI-ELISA showed a relative specificity of 95.75% and 97.38% and sensitivity of 96% and 94.43% with Ingenesa kit and Institut Pourquier kit, respectively. This study proved that the use of helicase domain of NS3 (45-kDa) is equally good as the whole NS3 protein (80-kDa) used in commercial kits for detection of BVDV antibodies in cattle and buffaloes.


pmid: 8922466
title: Characterization of RNA synthesis during a one-step growth curve and of the replication mechanism of bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: The noncytopathic Australian bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) Trangie isolate was used to establish a one-step growth curve and to investigate previously uncharacterized aspects of pestivirus replication. The eclipse phase was found to be approximately 8 to 10 h and the first appearance of viral antigen assayed by immunofluorescence occurred around 6 h post-infection (p.i.). Both positive- and negative-sense virus RNAs were first detected at 4 h p.i. by Northern blot hybridization using strand-specific RNA probes generated by in vitro transcription from cDNA cloned from the NS3 region. The ratio of positive- to negative-sense virus RNA changed from 2:1 at 4 h p.i. to 10:1 at 12 h p.i. and thereafter. The kinetics of synthesis showed that the rate of synthesis of positive-strand viral RNA increased rapidly from 6 h p.i., whereas the rate of synthesis of the negative-strand remained constant. The copy number of genomic RNA determined by Northern blot hybridization analysis was estimated to be 1.5 x 10(4) copies per cell, 16 to 24 h p.i. Viral RNA species that were thought to represent replicative intermediate (RI) and replicative forms (RF) were detected after electrophoretic separation by urea-PAGE. Confirmation of the identity of the RI and RF was obtained using LiCl precipitation and RNase A digestion of [3H]uridine-labelled RNA. Pulse-chase labelling of BVDV-infected cells was consistent with synthesis of nascent BVDV RNA through an RI derived by strand displacement from an RF template and thus the synthesis of BVDV RNA is likely to be similar to the model proposed for flavivirus replication.


pmid: 7978652
title: Effect of acute infection with noncytopathic or cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus isolates on bovine platelets
abstract: A total of 21 calves were inoculated i.v. with 1 of the following isolates of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV); CD87 (n = 10), NY-1 (n = 3), NADL (n = 5), or were sham-inoculated with virus-free medium (n = 3). Subsequent to inoculation, platelet counts were monitored to detect differences between noncytopathic (CD87, NY-1) and cytopathic (NADL) isolates in their ability to induce thrombocytopenia. Platelet count decrease throughout infection was statistically analyzed by comparing the slope of the line drawn from the count on the day of infection to the lowest count achieved by that calf. Significant difference was observed in the CD87-inoculated calves and in the NY-1-inoculated calves, compared with those of the same control group. Significant difference was not observed in the slope of platelet count decrease between the cytopathic NADL-infected calves and control-group calves. The data indicate that noncytopathic BVDV isolates may more easily induce thrombocytopenia than do cytopathic isolates in immune-naive, immunocompetent calves; acute infection with 1 cytopathic BVDV isolate (NADL) did not induce thrombocytopenia. In addition, although each calf seroconverted, virus was rarely isolated from mononuclear cells obtained from calves with cytopathic infections. At some point after infection, virus was always isolated from each of the calves undergoing noncytopathic infections, and occasionally, transient association of noncytopathic BVDV antigen with platelets was observed during these infections.


pmid: 8393083
title: Expression of the bovine viral diarrhoea virus Osloss p80 protein: its use as ELISA antigen for cattle serum antibody detection
abstract: The putative gene encoding the cytopathic bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) Osloss strain p80 protein was amplified by PCR and inserted into a T7 promoter-based vector for expression in Escherichia coli. Bacterial expression led to cytoplasmic insoluble inclusion bodies which were denatured by urea treatment and renatured by dialysis. Rabbit antisera were raised against this p80 recombinant antigen and assayed for the immunoprecipitation of either p120 or p80 protein from cytopathic or non-cytopathic BVDV biotype-infected bovine cells. The p80 gene sequence was also integrated into a baculovirus genome for its expression in Spodoptera frugiperda insect cells. The recombinant proteins isolated from bacteria or insect cells showed distinct antigenic properties when analysed by ELISA. Their ability to detect anti-BVDV specific antibodies was examined in a monoclonal antibody-based competitive ELISA performed on a series of field cattle sera. This comparative assay revealed the superiority of the insect cell-mediated expression to mimic the natural BVDV antigen produced by cell culture. The baculovirus/insect cell recombinant antigen gave the highest correlation between the ELISA-detected antibodies and the corresponding virus neutralization data.


pmid: 22480455
title: Kinetics of single and dual infection of calves with an Asian atypical bovine pestivirus and a highly virulent strain of bovine viral diarrhoea virus 1
abstract: Atypical bovine pestiviruses related to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) have recently been detected in cattle from South America, Asia and Europe. The purpose of this study was to compare the clinical and virological aspects of dual infection with BVDV-1 (Horton 916) and an Asian atypical bovine pestivirus (Th/04_KhonKaen) in naïve calves, in comparison to single infections. Milder clinical signs were observed in the animals infected with single Th/04_KhonKaen strain. Leukocytopenia and lymphocytopenia were observed in all infected groups at a similar level which correlated with the onset of viraemia. Co-infection with both viruses led to prolonged fever in comparison to single strain inoculated groups and simultaneous replication of concurrent viruses in blood and in the upper respiratory tract. Following the infections all the calves seroconverted against homologous strains. Atypical pestiviruses pose a serious threat to livestock health and BVDV eradication, since they may have the potential to be widely spread in cattle populations without being detected and differentiated from other BVDV infections.


pmid: 10535769
title: Genetic typing of bovine pestiviruses from England and Wales
abstract: Using RNA purified directly from stored clinical specimens, a collection of 62 pestiviruses were typed by RT-PCR and sequencing within the 5'-untranslated region of the genome. All the specimens had been obtained in 1966/1967 from diary cattle in England and Wales. Eight further pestiviruses, grown in cell culture, were characterised in the same way. Seven of these viruses were representatives of a panel of British isolates, obtained from cattle ten years before. The eighth was the virus used in a British bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) vaccine. Most of the viruses were genetically unique and were of BVDV type Ia. One recent isolate was BVDV type Ib, two others were intermediate between Ia and Ib. No BVDV type II or border disease virus (BDV) isolates were found. There was no overall association between geographical and phylogenetic clustering, suggesting long-distance virus dispersal, presumably via trading of infected cattle. The sequences of the recently obtained cattle viruses were very similar or, in one case, identical to the older isolates in the region studied. Their close similarity to some previously characterised pestiviruses from British sheep suggests that a common pool of BVDV Ia is shared by these two livestock species, although another pestivirus--BVDV--is confined to sheep. The British cattle viruses were mostly distinct from continental European isolates, but more similar to type Ia isolates from North American cattle.


pmid: 10078593
title: Expression of the E2 envelope glycoprotein of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) elicits virus-type specific neutralising antibodies
abstract: A region of genome from the NADL strain of BVDV corresponding to the coding sequence for the E2 glycoprotein has been molecularly cloned using RT-PCR. The viral cDNA sequence was used to construct vaccinia virus recombinants that expressed either the entire E2 coding sequence or fragments of it. These recombinants were used to immunise mice of three H-2 haplotypes to investigate their ability to elicit a neutralising antibody response against BVDV. Sera from mice immunised with the recombinant expressing full length E2 contained high levels of virus neutralising antibodies that in addition to giving neutralisation of the homologous NADL strain were also able to neutralise the Oregon C24V reference strain. These sera failed to give any neutralisation of the Osloss reference strain providing evidence for the division of BVDV isolates into at least two distinct E2 serotypes. These results were confirmed in gnotobiotic lambs. Expression of E2 fragments revealed the presence of at least two distinct neutralising epitopes, one of which was localised within the carboxy terminal 90 amino acids of the protein.


pmid: 10028168
title: A simple, rapid and reliable enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for the detection of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) specific antibodies in cattle serum, plasma and bulk milk
abstract: To detect Bovine Virus Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV)-specific antibodies in cattle serum, plasma and bulk milk, a simple, reliable and rapid blocking ELISA ("Ceditest") has been developed using two monoclonal antibodies ("WB112" and "WB103") directed to different highly conserved epitopes on the non-structural peptide NS3 of pestiviruses. The test can be performed at high reproducibility using undiluted samples. In testing 1000 field serum samples, the ELISA showed a specificity and a sensitivity relative to the virus neutralization test of 99% and 98%, respectively. The blocking ELISA is able to detect specific antibodies in serum obtained 12 days after an acute infection and in serum of vaccinated and challenged animals. A frequency distribution diagram, obtained by testing almost 1800 random Dutch field serum samples, showed a clear separation between a negative population (maximum frequency of the % inhibition at -5%) and a positive population (maximum frequency of the % inhibition at 95%). Based on these data, the prevalence of seropositive animals was 65% (95% confidence interval: 63%-67%). By exchanging plasma- and bulk milk samples between two laboratories (The Netherlands and Denmark), a good overall agreement was found between results obtained with the Ceditest and those obtained with the Danish blocking ELISA as used in the Danish BVDV eradication programme. The results indicate that BVDV infections can reliably be diagnosed by the Ceditest ELISA and that the test is suitable for use in large scale screening and eradication programmes.


pmid: 31269348
title: TaqMan real-time PCR for detecting bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The present study was aimed to establish a novel TaqMan real-time PCR (RTm-PCR) for detecting and typing bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and also to develop a diagnostic protocol which simplifies sample collection and processing. Universal primers and TaqMan-MGB probes were designed from the known sequences of conserved 5' - and 3'-untranslated regions (5'UTR, 3'UTR) of the NADL strain of BVDV. Prior to optimizing the assay, cDNAs were transcribed in vitro to make standard curves. The sensitivity, specificity and stability (reproducibility) were evaluated. The RTm-PCR was tested on the 312 feces specimens collected from persistently infected (PI) calves. The results showed the optimum conditions for RTm-PCR were 17.0 μmol/L primer, 7.5 μmol/L probe and 51.4°C annealing temperature. The established TaqMan RTm-PCR assay could specially detect BVDV without detecting any other viruses. Its detection limit was 1.55×100 copies/μL for viral RNA. It was 10000-fold higher than conventional PCR with excellent specificity and reproducibility. 312 samples were tested using this method and universal PCR from six dairy farms, respectively. Positive detections were found in 49 and 44 feces samples, respectively. The occurrence rate was 89.80%. In conclusion, the established TaqMan RTm-PCR could rapidly detect BVDV and effectively identify PI cattle. The detection limit of RTm-PCR was 1.55 copies/μL. It will be beneficial for enhancing diagnosis and therapy efficacy and reduce losses in cattle farms.


pmid: 27766427
title: Roles of bta-miR-29b promoter regions DNA methylation in regulating miR-29b expression and bovine viral diarrhea virus NADL replication in MDBK cells
abstract: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are an important class of small, non-coding RNAs that control target genes expression by degradation of target mRNAs or by inhibiting protein translation in many biological processes and cellular pathways. In a previous study, we found that miR-29b interfered with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) replication. However, the mechanisms of regulation of miR-29b expression are not well known. DNA methylation is an important epigenetic mechanism for silencing gene transcription, and plays an important role in promoter choice, protein expression, and regulation of miRNAs expression. In this study, we focused on the roles of DNA methylation of miR-29b promoter in regulating miR-29b expression and investigated the effects of DNA (cytosine-5) methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) knockdown on miR-29b expression and BVDV (strain NADL) replication. Our results showed that methylation levels of miR-29b promoter were significantly decreased in BVDV NADL-infected MDBK cells. Furthermore, DNMT1 silencing significantly decreased the methylation levels of miR-29b promoter, up-regulated miR-29b expression and inhibited BVDV NADL replication, which supports the important roles of DNA methylation in regulating miRNA expression and further proves an evidence for our previous views.


pmid: 23209790
title: Serosurveillance for livestock pathogens in free-ranging mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus)
abstract: Routine disease surveillance has been conducted for decades in mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) in California for pathogens shared between wildlife and domestic ruminants that may have implications for the animal production industry and wildlife health. Deer sampled from 1990 to 2007 (n = 2,619) were tested for exposure to six pathogens: bluetongue virus (BTV), epizootic hemorrhagic disease virus (EHDV), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), Leptospira spp., Anaplasma spp. and Brucella spp. We evaluated the relationship between exposure to these pathogens and demographic risk factors to identify broad patterns in seroprevalence across a large temporal and spatial scale. The overall seroprevalence for the entire study period was 13.4% for BTV, 16.8% for EHDV, 17.1% for BVDV, 6.5% for Leptospira spp., 0.2% for Brucella spp., and 17% for Anaplasma spp. Antibodies against BTV and EHDV were most prevalent in the deer populations of southern California. Antibodies against Leptospira spp. and Anaplasma spp. were most prevalent in coastal and central northern California whereas antibodies against BVDV were most prevalent in central-eastern and northeastern California. The overall seroprevalence for Anaplasma spp. was slightly lower than detected in previous studies. North and central eastern California contains large tracts of federal land grazed by livestock; therefore, possible contact between deer and livestock could explain the high BVDV seroprevalence found in these areas. Findings from this study will help to establish baseline values for future comparisons of pathogen exposure in deer, inform on long-term trends in deer population health and provide relevant information on the distribution of diseases that are shared between wildlife and livestock.


pmid: 21371766
title: Bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) eradication in Switzerland--experiences of the first two years
abstract: A national eradication programme was designed with the aim of achieving total freedom from bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in the Swiss cattle population. The eradication programme consisted of testing every Swiss bovine for antigen, culling virus-positive animals and applying movement restrictions. Starting in 2008, the campaign achieved the goal of reducing the proportion of newborn calves that were virus-positive from 1.8% to under 0.2% within two years (situation in September 2010). Both good data flow between the parties involved as well as speed and efficiency (e.g. concerning the application of tests, movement restrictions and slaughter) are central to the success of the programme. Since the beginning of the programme 2.85 million cattle have been tested for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). The BVD-prevalence in cattle at the individual and herd levels following the implementation of the eradication programme was assessed. Using data collected during this campaign a risk factor analysis was conducted in order to identify factors associated with the appearance of virus positive newborn calves in herds where BVD had not previously been detected; these risk factors would allow targeting of future surveillance. Herd size, early death rate (i.e. the number of animals that either die before 15 days of age or are stillborn per number of newborns per year), buying in stock, using communal summer grazing, production type, age structure and management strategy were factors associated with the appearance of new cases of infection. Testing of newborn calves for antigen will continue to be conducted until the end of 2011, this is combined with outbreak investigation of newly infected herds (consisting of re-testing dams of virus-positive calves and if necessary all cattle on or that recently left the farm). This process is done to identify infected animals that may have been missed during prior testing (false negatives), it also serves to identify other factors that may be responsible for the introduction of BVDV onto the farm. Since October 2009, testing of calves for antigen combined with outbreak investigation has led to the detection of 55 infected animals that had tested negative (presumably false negative) during previous rounds of testing.


pmid: 17881158
title: Genomic analyses of bovine viral diarrhea viruses isolated from cattle imported into Japan between 1991 and 2005
abstract: Thirty-one isolates of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolated within the past 15 years from imported cattle by the Japanese Animal Quarantine Service (AQS) were used in this study in which a 5'-untranslated region of each isolate was genetically analyzed. Twenty-six of the 31 isolates were classified as BVDV1 and the remainder as BVDV2. Phylogenetic analysis of the RT-PCR fragments amplified from the isolates showed the presence of viruses belonging to the BVDV1a, BVDV1b, BVDV1c, unclassified BVDV1 genotypes, and BVDV2. From the cattle of Australian origin, 16 of 17 isolates were classified as BVDV1c. This result was in agreement with a report showing that BVDV1c was a predominant subgenotype in Australia. From the cattle of North American origin, BVDV1 and BVDV2 species were both found. BVDV2 from the North American cattle was identified as the same cluster as the BVDV 890 strain, which is the prototype of BVDV2. These results suggest that the BVDVs isolated from exported cattle at the AQS reflect the predominant genotypes of BVDVs found in the exporting countries. The unclassified BVDV1 genotype of Chinese origin was in the same cluster as the ZM-95 strain, which was isolated from pigs in China. In this study, the genomic properties of 31 isolates of BVDV collected in the AQS were investigated. We concluded that isolates are genetically heterogeneous but geographically restricted. The information obtained from this report will be useful when carrying out epidemiological surveys of BVDV isolated in Japan.


pmid: 16971436
title: The NPro product of bovine viral diarrhea virus inhibits DNA binding by interferon regulatory factor 3 and targets it for proteasomal degradation
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a pestivirus that can establish a persistent infection in the developing fetus and has the ability to disable the production of type I interferon. In this report, we extend our previous observations that BVDV encodes a protein able to specifically block the activity of interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF-3), a transcription factor essential for interferon promoter activation, by demonstrating that this is a property of the N-terminal protease fragment (NPro) of the BVDV polyprotein. Although BVDV infections cause relocalization of cellular IRF-3 from the cytoplasm to the nucleus early in infection, NPro blocks IRF-3 from binding to DNA. NPro has the additional property of targeting IRF-3 for polyubiquitination and subsequent destruction by cellular multicatalytic proteasomes. The autoprotease activity of NPro is not required for the inhibition of type I interferon induction or the targeting of IRF-3 for degradation.


pmid: 34365125
title: Seroprevalence of pestivirus infections is low in Belgian small ruminant flocks and is significantly associated with the presence of cattle
abstract: A study was implemented to estimate the pestivirus seroprevalence in sheep and goats in Belgium, to identify circulating species and to check for a potential association between seropositivity of small ruminants and presence of cattle in the same farm. It was based on the testing of serum samples and bulk tank milk samples (BTM) collected in sheep and goat flocks in 2018-2019 all over the country. 7460 serum samples collected from 410 flocks were tested by a commercial ELISA able to detect antibodies (Ab) against Border Disease Virus (BDV), and Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV). BTM samples (n = 144) were collected from dairy flocks in November 2019 and tested with the same Ab ELISA. ELISA positive serum samples were also tested by virus neutralization test (VNT) for neutralizing antibodies against BDV, BVDV-type1 and BVDV-type2. Virological tests (RT-PCR) were performed on pools of serum samples from pestivirus-exposed flocks with at least two seropositive animals and on all Antibody-positive BTM samples. Information about serum and milk samples (identification, test results, farm of origin and location, presence of cattle) were gathered in animal-level and farm-level databases. Based on this study, the apparent animal seroprevalence for pestiviruses in small ruminant flocks in Belgium in 2018 was estimated to be 0.87 % (95 % C.I. [0.68 %-1.11 %]). The prevalence of flocks exposed to pestivirus (i.e. with at least one seropositive animal) was estimated to be 8.5 % (95 % C.I. [6.4 % - 11.6 %]). In exposed flocks, the average within-flock seroprevalence was 9.9 %. In dairy sheep and goats, the estimated proportion of exposed flocks in 2019, based on the detection of pestivirus antibodies in the bulk tank milk, was 9.7 % [5.9 %-15.7 %]. All PCR tests were negative, indicating the likely absence of active pestivirus circulation in these flocks. Although the observed pestivirus seroprevalence was found to be low in Belgian small ruminants, this study also showed, based on VNT results, that they are exposed to several pestivirus species: BDV, BVDV-1 and BVDV-2. 22.4 % of the farms included in the serological survey were holding both a small ruminant flock and a cattle herd, hence with a potential risk of contact between the two species. There was a significant positive association between pestivirus seropositivity in the sheep/goat flocks and the presence of a cattle herd in the same farm (OR = 2.42 (95 %C.I. [1.18-4.94]) but this association was not found for Ab-positive BTM in dairy flocks.


pmid: 25300803
title: Characterization of the cytopathic BVDV strains isolated from 13 mucosal disease cases arising in a cattle herd
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a positive single stranded RNA virus belonging to the Pestivirus genus of the Flaviviridae family. BVDV has a wide host range that includes most ruminants. Noncytopathic (ncp) BVDV may establish lifelong persistent infections in calves following infection of the fetus between 40 and 120 days of gestation. Cytopathic (cp) BVDV strains arise from ncp strains via mutations. The most common cp mutations are insertions of RNA derived from either host or a duplication of viral sequences into the region of the genome coding for the NS2/3 protein. Superinfection of a persistently infected animal with a cp virus can give rise to mucosal disease, a condition that is invariably fatal. A herd of 136 bred 3-year old cows was studied. These cows gave birth to 41 PI animals of which 23 succumbed to mucosal disease. In this study, we characterized the ncp and cp viruses isolated from 13 of these animals. All viruses belonged to the BVDV type 2a genotype and were highly similar. All the cp viruses contained an insertion in the NS2/3 coding region consisting of the sequences derived from the transcript encoding a DnaJ protein named Jiv90. Comparison of the inserted DnaJ regions along with the flanking viral sequences in the insertion 3' end of the 13 cp isolates revealed sequence identities ranging from 96% to 99% with common borders. This suggested that one animal likely developed a cp virus that then progressively spread to the other 12 animals. Interestingly, when the inserted mammalian gene replicated within viral genome, it showed conservation of the same conserved motifs between the different species, which may indicate a role for these motifs in the insertion function within the virus genome. This is the first characterization of multiple cp bovine viral diarrhea virus isolates that spread in a herd under natural conditions.


pmid: 29264821
title: Description of risk factors associated with the detection of BVDV antibodies in Brazilian pig herds
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infects ruminants as primary hosts. However, other animals like pigs are susceptible. This study was conducted to investigate seroprevalence and risk factors associated with the detection of BVDV antibodies in pig herds. A total of 1.705 serum samples of 33 finisher herds, from seven Brazilian states, were collected in slaughterhouses. The samples were tested by virus neutralization (VN) test. In total, 5.35% (91/1.705) were positive and 64% (21/33) of the herds had positive animals. A significant association with "trucks are not cleaned and disinfected" and "visitors do not respect 72-h interval between visits to farms" (P < 0.05) was found in association with detection of BVDV-2 antibodies. This study suggests that important biosecurity gaps are present in Brazilian pig farms, as the presence of BVDV antibodies in pigs suggests (direct or indirect) contact with population(s) of ruminant species. Closing biosecurity gaps prevents spread of BVDV and other pathogens such as foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) between pig and ruminant farms. This data should be taken in account by CSF surveillance programs, once cross-reaction in serologic tests between classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and BVDV antibodies has been shown to occur.


pmid: 27161176
title: A combined in silico/in vitro approach unveils common molecular requirements for efficient BVDV RdRp binding of linear aromatic N-polycyclic systems
abstract: In this work, we present and discuss a comprehensive set of both newly and previously synthesized compounds belonging to 5 distinct molecular classes of linear aromatic N-polycyclic systems that efficiently inhibits bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection. A coupled in silico/in vitro investigation was employed to formulate a molecular rationale explaining the notable affinity of all molecules to BVDV RNA dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) NS5B. We initially developed a three-dimensional common-feature pharmacophore model according to which two hydrogen bond acceptors and one hydrophobic aromatic feature are shared by all molecular series in binding the viral polymerase. The pharmacophoric information was used to retrieve a putative binding site on the surface of the BVDV RdRp and to guide compound docking within the protein binding site. The affinity of all compounds towards the enzyme was scored via molecular dynamics-based simulations, showing high correlation with in vitro EC50 data. The determination of the interaction spectra of the protein residues involved in inhibitor binding highlighted amino acids R295 and Y674 as the two fundamental H-bond donors, while two hydrophobic cavities HC1 (residues A221, I261, I287, and Y289) and HC2 (residues V216, Y303, V306, K307, P408, and A412) fulfill the third pharmacophoric requirement. Three RdRp (K263, R295 and Y674) residues critical for drug binding were selected and mutagenized, both in silico and in vitro, into alanine, and the affinity of a set of selected compounds towards the mutant RdRp isoforms was determined accordingly. The agreement between predicted and experimental data confirmed the proposed common molecular rationale shared by molecules characterized by different chemical scaffolds in binding to the BVDV RdRp, ultimately yielding compound 6b (EC50 = 0.3 μM; IC50 = 0.48 μM) as a new, potent inhibitor of this Pestivirus.


pmid: 12670010
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus infections and its control. A review
abstract: Infections with bovine viral diarrhoea virus continue to plague the cattle industry worldwide. The wish to control the negative effects of the virus has lead to the development of numerous vaccines, but also of eradication schemes. In this paper, a comprehensive overview on BVDV is given: the virus and its clinical manifestations, its occurrence and economic impact, the different routes of transmission, as well as diagnostic methods and objectives. Furthermore, the two major options for BVDV control--eradication and vaccination--are discussed as well as the risk for reintroduction of BVDV after eradication.


pmid: 3035663
title: Effect of bovine virus diarrhoea-mucosal disease virus infection on salmonella infection in calves
abstract: The possibility that bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection could aggravate concurrent salmonella infections was investigated in two series of experiments with Salmonella dublin and S typhimurium. In both series of experiments the clinical signs tended to be more severe in dual infections than in those with salmonella alone. Faecal excretion of S dublin was similar in both single and dual infected calves. A protracted bacteraemia occurred only in two dual infected calves, one of which died from suppurative meningitis. In the case of S typhimurium, body temperatures, passage of abnormal faeces and isolation rates of salmonella from faeces were significantly increased. The results suggest that BVDV infection may indeed exacerbate the effects of salmonella infection and the aetiological relationship of the two agents should be considered during outbreaks of bovine salmonellosis.


pmid: 3035663
title: Effect of bovine virus diarrhoea-mucosal disease virus infection on salmonella infection in calves
abstract: The possibility that bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection could aggravate concurrent salmonella infections was investigated in two series of experiments with Salmonella dublin and S typhimurium. In both series of experiments the clinical signs tended to be more severe in dual infections than in those with salmonella alone. Faecal excretion of S dublin was similar in both single and dual infected calves. A protracted bacteraemia occurred only in two dual infected calves, one of which died from suppurative meningitis. In the case of S typhimurium, body temperatures, passage of abnormal faeces and isolation rates of salmonella from faeces were significantly increased. The results suggest that BVDV infection may indeed exacerbate the effects of salmonella infection and the aetiological relationship of the two agents should be considered during outbreaks of bovine salmonellosis.


pmid: 9192369
title: Expression of envelope protein (E2) of bovine viral diarrhea virus in insect cells
abstract: The gene encoding the envelope glycoprotein (E2) of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was expressed in a baculovirus. The expressed protein was detected on the surface of infected cells by immunofluorescence. Western blotting analysis showed the presence of the expressed protein of a similar molecular size to the E2 protein. The antigenicity of expressed protein were tested in guinea pigs and cattle. The immunized animals developed neutralizing antibodies against BVDV.


pmid: 30593353
title: Investigation of association between bovine viral diarrhoea virus and cervid herpesvirus type-1, and abortion in New Zealand farmed deer
abstract: This study tested for association between bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDv) and cervid herpesvirus type-1 (CvHV-1) exposure and abortion in New Zealand farmed red deer. Rising two-year-old (R2, n = 22,130) and mixed-age (MA, n = 36,223) hinds from 87 and 71 herds, respectively, throughout New Zealand were pregnancy tested using ultrasound early in gestation (Scan-1) and 55-89 days later (Scan-2) to detect mid-term abortion. Sera from aborted and non-aborted hinds at Scan-2 were tested for BVDv and CvHV-1 using virus neutralisation tests. Available uteri from aborted hinds and from hinds not rearing a calf to weaning were tested by PCR for herpesvirus DNA. In herds with aborted hinds, 10.3% of 639 R2 and 17.2% of 302 MA hinds were sero-positive for BVDv and 18.6% of 613 R2 and 68.5% of 232 MA hinds were sero-positive for CvHV-1. There was no association between BVDv sero-status and abortion at animal level (R2 p = 0.36, MA p = 0.76) whereas CvHV-1 sero-positivity was negatively associated with abortion in MA hinds (p = 0.01) but not in R2 hinds (p = 0.36), MA). Eleven of 108 uteri from aborted R2 hinds but no MA hinds were positive for herpesvirus DNA. Vaginal samples from four R2 and one MA aborted hinds tested were negative for herpesvirus DNA. A Cervid Rhadinovirus type-2 (CRhV-2) was identified in seven PCR positive uteri samples. Findings suggest that BVDv and CvHV-1 may not be associated with abortion in R2 hinds, but association needs to be tested further in MA hinds. The role of CRhV-2 requires clarification.


pmid: 27522929
title: Use of homologous recombination in yeast to create chimeric bovine viral diarrhea virus cDNA clones
abstract: The open reading frame of a Brazilian bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strain, IBSP4ncp, was recombined with the untranslated regions of the reference NADL strain by homologous recombination in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, resulting in chimeric full-length cDNA clones of BVDV (chi-NADL/IBSP4ncp#2 and chi-NADL/IBSP4ncp#3). The recombinant clones were successfully recovered, resulting in viable viruses, having the kinetics of replication, focus size, and morphology similar to those of the parental virus, IBSP4ncp. In addition, the chimeric viruses remained stable for at least 10 passages in cell culture, maintaining their replication efficiency unaltered. Nucleotide sequencing revealed a few point mutations; nevertheless, the phenotype of the rescued viruses was nearly identical to that of the parental virus in all experiments. Thus, genetic stability of the chimeric clones and their phenotypic similarity to the parental virus confirm the ability of the yeast-based homologous recombination to maintain characteristics of the parental virus from which the recombinant viruses were derived. The data also support possible use of the yeast system for the manipulation of the BVDV genome.


pmid: 8032255
title: Natural recombination in bovine viral diarrhea viruses
abstract: BVDV isolates exist as two biotypes differentiated at the molecular level by production of a p80 polypeptide. Insertions consisting of host cell sequences and/or duplicated and rearranged viral sequences have been observed in the portion of the genome coding for the p80 polypeptide in some, but not all, cytopathic BVDV. The significance of these insertions to biotypic expression has yet to be demonstrated. It has been hypothesized that recombination results in the production of the p80 polypeptide by introduction of a cleavage site into a precursor polypeptide or the introduction of a second copy of the p80 gene. Because inserts have not been identified in all cytopathic BVDV examined, it appears that recombination may not be the only mechanism involved in biotypic determination.


pmid: 9210922
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus genomic organization
abstract: In previous work, we developed a preliminary description of the genetic organization of the prototypic pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). In order to refine this genetic map and to further elucidate the gene products and expression strategy of this virus, we have generated a broad panel of sequence-specific antibody reagents. Use of these reagents not only allowed the identification of several previously undescribed viral polypeptides, but when used in in vivo pulse-chase experiments, they identified precursor polyproteins and processing intermediates. Data generated from these studies provide a more accurate and complete view of viral gene organization, as well as insight into several aspects of protein processing and the gene expression strategy employed by this pestivirus. These experiments also revealed varying stability and turnover rates for the mature BVDV proteins. These latter results have implications for the functional roles of certain gene products.


pmid: 19616294
title: Effect of cryopreservation by slow cooling and vitrification on viral contamination of IVF embryos experimentally exposed to bovine viral diarrhea virus and bovine herpesvirus-1
abstract: The objective was to determine the effect of cryopreservation by conventional slow controlled cooling (0.5 degrees C/min) and by vitrification on the presence of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1) infectivity associated with frozen-thawed Day 7 bovine embryos. In this study, Day 7 embryos generated by in vitro fertilization (IVF) were exposed in vitro for 1.5h to BVDV (N=393) and BHV-1 (N=242) and subsequently tested before and after cryopreservation for the presence of infectivity. Exposure of embryos to viral agents resulted in 72% of them infected prior to cryopreservation. Stepwise exposure of embryos to cryoprotectants, as well as their removal, substantially reduced the proportion of contaminated embryos (46% vs. 72%, P<0.05). Overall, both freezing methods reduced the percentage of infectious embryos compared with that of embryos similarly exposed to viruses but not cryopreserved (31% vs. 72%, respectively; P<0.001). The percentage of embryos with infectious viruses was not significantly higher after vitrification than after slow cooling (38% vs. 22%). In addition, after cryopreservation, a higher percentage (P<0.002) of embryos exposed to BHV-1 (42%) remained infectious than did embryos exposed to BVDV (24%). In conclusion, cryopreservation reduced the proportion of infected embryos but did not render all of them free from infectious pathogens.


pmid: 18374992
title: An improved reverse genetics system for generation of bovine viral diarrhea virus as a BAC cDNA
abstract: Full length cDNA clones of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) with a low-copy number plasmid backbone have not proven to be stable when propagated in bacteria. To improve stability, pBAS, a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) plasmid was used to construct a full length cDNA clone of BVDV strain SD1, which has a genomic size of 12.3 kb. The resulting clone pBSD1 was propagated stably for at least 10 passages in three different Escherichia coli strains at two different incubation temperatures as determined by sequencing the progeny plasmids. In vitro transcripts derived from pBSD1 were homologous in size and had an infectious efficiency as high as approximately 5.0 x 10(5)FFU/microg RNA in MDBK cells. The recovered virus, BSD1, harbored the five artificially introduced silent point mutations as genetic markers and was similar to wild type SD1 in viral growth kinetics, RNA replication, and protein expression. This BAC clone provides a stable reverse genetics system for manipulation and study of BVDV genes.


pmid: 12885896
title: A hepadnavirus regulatory element enhances expression of a type 2 bovine viral diarrhea virus E2 protein from a bovine herpesvirus 1 vector
abstract: Recently, the possibility of using virus vectors to immunize cattle against selected bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) genes has gained widespread interest. However, when we attempted to express the E2 protein from type 2 (890 strain) BVDV in a bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV1) vector, we observed that expression was poor. This often happens when genes from a cytoplasmic virus are expressed in the cell nucleus. To counter this effect, we attempted to enhance expression by a strategy employed by viruses. RNAs of retroviruses and hepadnaviruses contain cis-acting elements that facilitate expression of RNAs that otherwise are degraded or retained within the nucleus. In Mason-Pfizer monkey virus, the required RNA sequence element is known as a constitutive transport element (CTE). A related element from woodchuck hepatitis virus is known as the woodchuck posttranscriptional regulatory element (WPRE). We tested the ability of the CTE, the WPRE, and introns to enhance expression of E2. All three elements stimulated expression of E2 from plasmids. The combination of the WPRE and an intron yielded the highest level of E2 expression in plasmids. However, when E2 was expressed from a BHV1 vector, the presence of an intron was inhibitory. In contrast, the WPRE was very efficient at stimulating E2 expression from a BHV1 vector. This result represents the first expression of a type 2 BVDV E2 protein from a mammalian virus vector and raises the possibility that the WPRE may provide a general method of enhancing foreign gene expression from BHV1 and other herpesvirus vectors.


pmid: 12503593
title: Pestiviral infections in sheep and pigs in Northern Ireland
abstract: Serological surveys were carried out to determine the prevalence of pestiviral infections in sheep and pigs in Northern Ireland. Sera from 918 ewes in 92 flocks from 10 regions were tested by ELISA for antibodies to border disease virus and positive results were obtained from 49 ewes (5.3 per cent) in 28 flocks (30.4 per cent). There were highly significant geographical variations in its flock prevalence ranging from 0 per cent in the Enniskillen region to 70 per cent in the Coleraine region. There was no significant association between the proportion of seropositive flocks and the presence of cattle on the farm (P = 0.583). In the positive flocks, the average rate of seroprevalence was 17.5 per cent, and the highest was 40 per cent. Comparative neutralisation studies on 14 positive sera with bovine viral diarrhoea virus type I (BVDV I) and border disease virus revealed higher titres (> or = four-fold) to BVDV I in all cases. Only one positive result was obtained when fluids from 186 aborted ovine fetuses were tested for border disease virus by ELISA. Serum samples from 680 pigs in 46 herds were tested for virus neutralising antibodies to border disease virus. Twenty sera (2.9 per cent) were cytotoxic, and only one of the remaining 660 sera gave a positive result. This sample tested negative for classical swine fever by ELISA, and comparative neutralisation studies showed that it had a four-fold higher titre to BVDV I than to border disease virus.


pmid: 11708203
title: The immunohistochemical detection of Mycoplasma bovis and bovine viral diarrhea virus in tissues of feedlot cattle with chronic, unresponsive respiratory disease and/or arthritis
abstract: The purpose of this study was to determine the frequency of selected pathogens in the tissues of a group of feedlot cattle with chronic disease (most often respiratory disease and/or arthritis). Samples of lung and joint tissues from 49 feedlot animals that had failed to respond to antibiotic therapy were tested by immunohistochemical staining for the antigens of Mycoplasma bovis, Haemophilus somnus, Pasteurella (Mannheimia) hemolytica, and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Mycoplasma bovis was demonstrated in over 80% of cases, including in 45% of joints and 71% of lungs tested. Mycoplasma bovis was the only bacterial pathogen identified in the joints. Haemophilus somnus and Pasteurella (Mannheimia) haemolytica were found in 14% and 23% of cases, respectively, and were confined to the lungs in all instances. Infection with BVDV was demonstrated in over 40% of cases. Mycoplasma bovis and BVDV were the most common pathogens persisting in the tissues of these animals that had failed to respond to antibiotic therapy.


pmid: 9157132
title: Microtiter virus isolation and enzyme immunoassays for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus in cattle serum
abstract: Cattle immunotolerant to and persistently infected (PI) with bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) virus (BVDV) constitute the mechanism by which BVDV persists in cattle herds. Two procedures for using serum to detect PI cattle were developed and evaluated. BVDV was found to remain viable for 7 days in serum samples stored at room temperature. The tests use cell culture virus isolation (VI) in 96-well microtiter plates, followed by immunostaining of cell monolayers with monoclonal antibodies. One technique, the immunoperoxidase monolayer assay (IPMA), forms a red intracellular precipitate while the other, the monolayer enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (M-ELISA) produces a yellow color in solution. The optimal incubation period for microtiter VI was determined to be 4 days. Optimal IPMA staining was obtained by fixing cell monolayers with 20 to 30% acetone, whereas a simple dry-rehydrate-dry cycle provided optimal M-ELISA staining. The M-ELISA and IPMA had the same sensitivities and specificities, but the M-ELISA was a more rapid procedure and use of a spectrophotometer for reading samples allowed for greater objectivity. When compared to standard VI with routine samples submitted for the diagnosis of BVD, M-ELISA and IPMA had a relative sensitivity of 85% and a relatively specificity of 100%. When only samples from cattle suspected of being PI were considered, these two parameters were 100% for both IPMA and M-ELISA. The two procedures, especially the M-ELISA, are suitable for whole-herd testing to identify PI cattle. The appeal of these tests is derived from the convenience of using serum as a diagnostic sample and the ability to rapidly screen large numbers of samples at low cost.


pmid: 8209823
title: Border disease virus transmitted to sheep and cattle by a persistently infected ewe: epidemiology and control
abstract: In a Swedish sheep flock comprising 202 ewes and 13 rams, a pair of twin lambs born in the spring of 1990 demonstrated signs of border disease (BD) and were persistently infected (PI) with border disease virus (BDV). Investigation showed that BDV had been introduced in the preceding tupping period 5-6 months earlier by a bought-in ewe which, on the basis of immunoperoxidase- and polymerase chain reaction techniques, was shown to be PI with BDV. Only 7 of the ewes, all of which had been in close contact with the PI ewe, seroconverted during the subsequent gestation. Apart from the PI twin lambs the losses caused by BDV were restricted to 2 barren ewes. The twin lambs, the PI ewe and lambs from the other 4 ewes that seroconverted were removed from the flock. The flock was thereafter free from an ongoing infection with BDV as shown by the absence of seroconversion. In addition, 5 heifers in late pregnancy most probably seroconverted to bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) when kept in close contact with the same PI ewe during the winter of 1989-90. When these heifers were reintroduced to the BVDV-free dairy herd from which they originated, their serum antibody titres ranged between 1:250 and 1:1250. Neither these heifers--not their calves--caused any spread of the infection in the herd, as indicated by the absence of seroconversion in 70 cows. The present investigation shows that in the control of both BDV in sheep and BVDV in cattle, it is important to ensure that the risk of transmission of pestivirus between the 2 species is minimized.


pmid: 29302775
title: Herd-level risk factors for bovine viral diarrhea infection in cattle of Tamil Nadu
abstract: A cross-sectional study was carried out to identify risk factors for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in 62 randomly selected dairy herds which were tested for BVD serum antibodies by using an indirect ELISA kit (IDEXX). Results from the chi-square test analysis were interpreted by analyzing by chi-square test. A sum of 500 sera samples were screened and 66 animals (13.20%) showed positive for BVDV antibody. Within herd, BVD seroprevalence was 12-65%. This study concluded that epidemiological risk factors like location, herd size, housing patterns like, tail to tail system, roofing pattern, distance between the manure pit and farm, and distance between farms were significantly associated with BVDV serological status (P < 0.05).


pmid: 26050577
title: Pestivirus control programs: how far have we come and where are we going?
abstract: Classical swine fever (CSF) is endemic in large parts of the world and it is a major threat to the pig industry in general. Vaccination and stamping out have been the most successful tools for the control and elimination of the disease. The systematic use of modified live vaccines (MLV), which are very efficacious and safe, has often preceded the elimination of CSF from regions or countries. Oral vaccination using MLV is a powerful tool for the elimination of CSF from wild boar populations. Bovine virus diarrhea (BVD) is endemic in bovine populations worldwide and programs for its control are only slowly gaining ground. With two genotypes BVD virus (BVDV) is genetically more diverse than CSF virus (CSFV). BVDV crosses the placenta of pregnant cattle resulting in the birth of persistently infected (PI) calves. PI animals shed enormous amounts of virus for the rest of their lives and they are the reservoir for the spread of BVDV in cattle populations. They are the main reason for the failure of conventional control strategies based on vaccination only. In Europe two different approaches for the successful control of BVD are being used: Elimination of PI animals without or with the optional use of vaccines, respectively.


pmid: 23261157
title: Experimental infection of pregnant cows with noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhoea virus between days 26 and 50 postbreeding
abstract: The effect of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection on early pregnant cows between 10 and 24 days after virus inoculation at day 26 of pregnancy was determined. Four cows were inoculated intravenously with either BVDV (treated, n=3) or growth medium (control, n=1). The treated cows were euthanized on either day 10, 17 or 24 post-infection and the control cow was euthanized on day 24 post-infection. The level of serum 2-5A synthetase increased in all of the three treated cows. Progesterone levels decreased to below 1.0 ng/ml between 10 and 22 days after inoculation in two of the three treated cows and the embryos/foetuses of two cows died. Therefore, BVDV may be a cause of early embryonic or feotal loss in early pregnant cows and serum 2-5A synthetase may be useful as an indicator of viral infection in cows.


pmid: 21346033
title: Characterization and purification of recombinant bovine viral diarrhea virus particles with epitope-tagged envelope proteins
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) belongs to the genus Pestivirus within the family Flaviviridae. The lipid membrane of the virions is supposed to contain the three glycosylated envelope proteins E(rns), E1 and E2, but detailed studies of virus assembly are complicated because no efficient purification method for pestiviruses has been described so far. In this study, we generated infectious BVDV with N-terminally FLAG-tagged E(rns) or E2 proteins, respectively. The expression of the epitope-tagged E(rns) and E2 proteins could be shown by immunofluorescence and Western blot experiments. Furthermore, an affinity tag purification protocol for the isolation and concentration of infectious BVDV was established. In the preparation with a titre of 10(8.75) TCID(50) ml(-1), spherical particles with a diameter of 43-58 nm (mean diameter: 48 nm) could be detected by negative staining electron microscopy, and immunogold labelling located both E(rns) and E2 proteins at the virus membrane.


pmid: 19776121
title: A single point mutation in nonstructural protein NS2 of bovine viral diarrhea virus results in temperature-sensitive attenuation of viral cytopathogenicity
abstract: For Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), the type species of the genus Pestivirus in the family Flaviviridae, cytopathogenic (cp) and noncytopathogenic (ncp) viruses are distinguished according to their effect on cultured cells. It has been established that cytopathogenicity of BVDV correlates with efficient production of viral nonstructural protein NS3 and with enhanced viral RNA synthesis. Here, we describe generation and characterization of a temperature-sensitive (ts) mutant of cp BVDV strain CP7, termed TS2.7. Infection of bovine cells with TS2.7 and the parent CP7 at 33 degrees C resulted in efficient viral replication and a cytopathic effect. In contrast, the ability of TS2.7 to cause cytopathogenicity at 39.5 degrees C was drastically reduced despite production of high titers of infectious virus. Further experiments, including nucleotide sequencing of the TS2.7 genome and reverse genetics, showed that a Y1338H substitution at residue 193 of NS2 resulted in the temperature-dependent attenuation of cytopathogenicity despite high levels of infectious virus production. Interestingly, TS2.7 and the reconstructed mutant CP7-Y1338H produced NS3 in addition to NS2-3 throughout infection. Compared to the parent CP7, NS2-3 processing was slightly decreased at both temperatures. Quantification of viral RNAs that were accumulated at 10 h postinfection demonstrated that attenuation of the cytopathogenicity of the ts mutants at 39.5 degrees C correlated with reduced amounts of viral RNA, while the efficiency of viral RNA synthesis at 33 degrees C was not affected. Taken together, the results of this study show that a mutation in BVDV NS2 attenuates viral RNA replication and suppresses viral cytopathogenicity at high temperature without altering NS3 expression and infectious virus production in a temperature-dependent manner.


pmid: 19748253
title: Xanthohumol enhances antiviral effect of interferon alpha-2b against bovine viral diarrhea virus, a surrogate of hepatitis C virus
abstract: Xanthohumol (XN) is a natural compound with multifunctional potentials, including antiviral activity. In this study, the antiviral activity of addition of XN to interferon (IFN)-alpha was examined and compared with each compound alone using bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a surrogate model of hepatitis C virus (HCV). BVDV E2 protein and the viral RNA level were determined by immunofluorescence and quantitative real-time RT-PCR, respectively. The addition of XN to IFN-alpha significantly improved CPEs induced by the virus and inhibited BVDV E2 protein and viral RNA levels. The interaction between XN and IFN-alpha was significant (P<0.001). XN at 3.13 microg/ml in combination with IFN-alpha at 50 IU/ml showed greater inhibitory effect on the viral RNA level than each compound used alone at 6.25 microg/ml and 100 IU/ml, respectively, indicating synergistic effect on BVDV replication in this combination. The inhibitory activity in all the tested combinations of XN and IFN-alpha was stronger than that of each compound used alone at the corresponding concentration. These results suggest that XN in combination with IFN-alpha exhibited a greater in vitro antiviral effect compared with each compound used alone. Further studies are deserved to investigate the anti-HCV activity of XN and the potential of XN in formulating novel anti-HCV regimen.


pmid: 16500115
title: Evaluation of viral clearance in the production of HPV-16 L1 virus-like particles purified from insect cell cultures
abstract: Biopharmaceutical products produced from cell cultures have a potential for viral contamination from cell sources or from adventitious introduction during production. The objective of this study was to assess viral clearance in the production of insect cell-derived recombinant human papillomavirus (HPV)-16 type L1 virus-like particles (VLPs). We selected Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and minute virus of mice (MVM) as relevant viruses to achieve the aim of this study. A downstream process for the production of purified HPV-16 L1 VLPs consisted of detergent lysis of harvested cells, sonication, sucrose cushion centrifugation, and cesium chloride (CsCl) equilibrium density centrifugation. The capacity of each purification/treatment step to clear viruses was expressed as reduction factor by measuring the difference in log virus infectivity of sample pools before and after each process. As a result, detergent treatment (0.5% v/v, Nonidet P-40/phosphate-buffered saline) was effective for inactivating enveloped viruses such as JEV and BVDV, but no significant reduction (< 1.0 log(10)) was observed in the non-enveloped MVM. The CsCl equilibrium density centrifugation was fairly effective for separating all three relevant adventitious viruses with different CsCl buoyant density from that of HPV-16 L1 VLPs (JEV, BVDV, and MVM = 4.30, 3.10, > or = 4.40 log(10) reductions). Given the study conditions we used, overall cumulative reduction factors for clearance of JEV, BVDV, and MVM were > or = 10.50, > or = 9.20, and > or = 6.40 log(10) in 150 ml of starting cell cultures, respectively.


pmid: 28605413
title: Acute bovine viral diarrhea virus infection inhibits expression of interferon tau-stimulated genes in bovine endometrium
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) can evade host detection by downregulation of interferon signaling pathways. Infection of cows with noncytopathic (ncp) BVDV can cause early embryonic mortality. Upregulation of type I interferon stimulated genes (ISGs) by blastocyst-secreted interferon tau (IFNT) is a crucial component of the maternal recognition of pregnancy (MRP) in ruminants. This study investigated the potential of acute BVDV infection to disrupt MRP by modulating endometrial ISG expression. Endometrial cells from 10 BVDV-free cows were cultured and treated with 0 or 100 ng/ml IFNT for 24 h in the absence or presence of ncpBVDV infection to yield four treatment groups: CONT, ncpBVDV, IFNT, or ncpBVDV+IFNT. ncpBVDV infection alone only upregulated TRIM56, but reduced mRNA expression of ISG15, MX2, BST2, and the proinflammatory cytokine IL1B. As anticipated, IFNT treatment alone significantly increased expression of all 17 ISGs tested. In contrast to the limited effect of ncpBVDV alone, the virus markedly inhibited IFNT-stimulated expression of 15 ISGs tested (ISG15, HERC5, USP18, DDX58, IFIH1, IFIT1, IFIT3, BST2, MX1, MX2, RSAD2, OAS1Y, SAMD9, GBP4, and PLAC8), together with ISG15 secreted protein. Only TRIM56 and IFI27 expression was unaltered. IL1B expression was reduced by the combined treatment. These results indicate that acute ncpBVDV infection may decrease uterine immunity and lead to MRP failure through inhibition of IFNT-stimulated endometrial ISG production. This in turn could reduce fertility and predispose cows to uterine disease, while evasion of the normal uterine immune response by ncpBVDV may contribute to maintenance and spreading of this economically important disease.


pmid: 25037889
title: Patterns of detection of respiratory viruses in nasal swabs from calves in Ireland: a retrospective study
abstract: A retrospective analysis was conducted to investigate the prevalence and seasonality of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), bovine coronavirus (BoCV), bovine herpesvirus-1 (BoHV-1), bovine respiratory syncytical virus (BRSV) and parainfluenza virus-3 (PI3V) in calves (aged three months and below) in Ireland. Results from real-time PCR testing, including cycle threshold values, conducted on nasal swabs (single or pooled) submitted from 1364 respiratory disease outbreaks between January 1, 2008 and December 31, 2012 were included in this study. One or more viruses were detected in 34.6 per cent of submissions, with BoCV detected most frequently (22.9 per cent), followed by BRSV (11.6 per cent), PI3 V (7.0 per cent), BoHV-1 (6.1 per cent) and BVDV (5.0 per cent). The detection rate of all viruses was higher when pooled multiple swabs were submitted from outbreaks rather than single swabs, with these differences being significant for all except BVDV. Two or more viruses were detected in 39.4 per cent of positive submissions, with BoCV and BRSV most commonly present as one of the two partners in detection. With the exception of BVDV, which was detected all year round, the others showed a clear seasonal pattern, being most commonly detected in winter and spring.


pmid: 16599184
title: Genetic analysis of indian bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 isolates in N(pro) and entire gene region coding structural proteins
abstract: Three Indian Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1) isolates were analyzed at genetic level in N(pro) (viral autoprotease) and entire gene region coding structural proteins, namely capsid (C) protein, E(rns), and envelope proteins E1 and E2. All these isolates were found to be of b subtype based on the entire 504 nt region of N(pro) and 1119 nt region of E2. However, in comparison with other isolates of this subtype, they were allocated inside the BVDV-1 subtype b cluster to a separate clade with a longer distance. Of six cysteine residues in N(pro) only three were totally conserved in all three isolates. The isolates showed 94.9-99.3% and 92.2-99.0% identities for the entire C-E2 gene region at nucleotide and amino acid levels, respectively. The lowest identity values (88.5-91.7%) were observed for E2 amino acid sequences. The identity of the isolates with Osloss, a reference BVDV-1 subtype b strain, was in the range of 82.1-89.9% for nucleotide and 78.6-89.2% for amino acid sequences in the C-E2 region. The N(pro)/C and E(rns)/E1 cleavage sites were highly conserved. The C/E(rns) and E1/E2 cleavage sites were more conserved from the N-end of E(rns) and the C-end of El, respectively. These findings suggest that some unique mutations have occurred in the described Indian BVDV-1 isolates, though they all belong to the BVDV-1 subtype b.


pmid: 33554289
title: Sequence analysis of the DA domain of glycoprotein E2 of pestiviruses isolated from beef cattle in Southern Brazil
abstract: The envelope glycoprotein E2 of pestiviruses is a major target for neutralizing antibodies. In this study, we analyzed the E2 DA domain of 43 pestiviruses from Southern Brazil. The isolates were identified as Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) subtypes 1a and 1b or BVDV-2b. Compared to reference strains, the BVDV-1 and -2 isolates had four and two mutations in the DA domain, respectively. All BVDV-2 isolates had a deletion of residues 724 and 725. All mutated amino acids in the BVDV isolates had the same aa substitution, and all were in previously identified antibody binding sites. It is possible that an immunity-mediated selection is acting on the pestiviruses circulating in Southern Brazil.


pmid: 18053605
title: Acute non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus infection induces pronounced type I interferon response in pregnant cows and fetuses
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection occurs in the cattle population worldwide. Non-cytopathic (ncp) BVDV strains cause transient infection (TI) or persistent infection (PI) depending on the host's immune status. Immunocompetent adult animals and fetuses in late gestation resolve the infection. Fetal infection in early gestation results in PI with chronic viremia and life-long viral shedding, ensuring virus perpetuation in the population. Eighteen pregnant heifers, divided into three groups, were intranasally inoculated with ncp BVDV2 virus early (day 75) and late (day 175) in gestation, or kept BVDV-naïve. Fetuses were retrieved on day 190. Antiviral activity in blood of dams and fetuses, maternal expression of interferon (IFN) stimulated gene 15kDa (ISG15), virological and serological status of heifers and fetuses, and fetal growth were studied. A pronounced antiviral activity in blood of heifers and TI fetuses during acute BVDV infection was accompanied by drastic up-regulation of ISG15 mRNA in maternal blood. Only one PI fetus expressed low IFN response 115 days post inoculation despite high BVDV antigen and RNA levels. PI fetuses presented with growth retardation. Infection of pregnant heifers with ncp BVDV2 early in gestation adversely affects fetal development and antiviral responses, despite protective immune responses in the dam.


pmid: 20154160
title: Effects of exposure to calves persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1b and Mannheimia haemolytica challenge on animal performance, nitrogen balance, and visceral organ mass in beef steers
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) have been isolated alone or in combination with other viral and bacterial pathogens in animals diagnosed with bovine respiratory disease (BRD), a disease causing major economic loss to the feedlot industry. The objective of this experiment was to determine the effects of Mannheimia haemolytica challenge after short-term exposure (72 h) to bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1b (BVDV1b) persistently infected (PI) calves on performance, N balance, and organ mass in finishing cattle. Treatments (6 steers/treatment; initial BW = 314 +/- 31 kg) were 1) steers not exposed to steers PI with BVDV nor challenged with M. haemolytica (control; CON); 2) steers exposed to 2 steers PI with BVDV1b (BVD) for 72 h; 3) steers intratracheally challenged with M. haemolytica (MH); or 4) steers exposed to 2 steers PI with BVDV1b for 72 h and challenged with M. haemolytica (BVD+MH). There were 12 h between exposure to PI steers and challenge with M. haemolytica. Steers were housed in metabolism stanchions during the first 5 d after the M. haemolytica challenge and on d 7 to 11, 28 to 32, and for 5 d before slaughter (average 119 d on feed) to determine N balance and were weighed every 28 d. At slaughter, carcass and organ mass data were collected. Data were analyzed as a randomized complete block design with a 2 x 2 factorial arrangement of treatments, and steer was used as the experimental unit. From d -3 (beginning of PI steer exposure) to 4, steers challenged with M. haemolytica had less (P = 0.04) ADG than steers not challenged with M. haemolytica. In addition, steers exposed to steers PI with BVDV tended (P = 0.09) to have less ADG and G:F across the entire finishing period than steers not exposed to BVDV. Before slaughter, retained N expressed as grams per day (P = 0.03) and as a percentage of N intake (P = 0.04) was less in BVD steers compared with steers not exposed to BVDV. There were no effects (P > 0.10) of BVDV exposure or M. haemolytica challenge on empty BW (EBW) or carcass characteristics. Expressed as a percentage of EBW, HCW was less (P = 0.02) and total offal weight was greater (P = 0.02) for steers challenged with M. haemolytica compared with steers not challenged. Results are in agreement with those reported in larger scale finishing studies and suggest that acute exposure to BRD-related pathogens can have long-term effects on animal performance.


pmid: 16242196
title: Description and first results of a BVDV control scheme in Brittany (western France)
abstract: A collective zoo-sanitary control scheme for BVDV has been implemented in Brittany in successive steps since 1998. Prior evaluation of prevalence and dynamics of infection through bulk-milk ELISA showed that 40% of the dairy herds were likely to be free of BVDV but that, in the long term, no improvement was to be expected without control of new infections. The next step was a test-and-cull programme for PI animals in ELISA positive herds. Ten percentage of the herds were found to have at least one PI animal. The incidence decreased during this step. To lower costs of testing traded animals, a database was developed to collect all the available information to trace animals already known to be non-PI.


pmid: 10404869
title: Benefits and risks due to animal serum used in cell culture production
abstract: Infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and other viruses is frequent in the bovine population. In utero infection leads to virus and antibody contamination of foetal and other serum used in cell culture production. The use of contaminated cells for vaccine production may result in contaminated vaccines, which may lead to seroconversion or disease in the vaccinated animal. Contaminated serum or cell cultures may also interfere with the diagnosis of viral infections. Methods for the detection of BVDV and other viruses in serum, cell cultures, seed viruses and vaccines at the CVB-L, and the frequency of detection are described. Reasons for continued use of serum in cell culture production, and the risks of using serum, are discussed.


pmid: 8581860
title: Immunology of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Often persistent and primary postnatal infections with BVDV result in immunosuppression in cattle, thereby enhancing the vulnerability of the latter to secondary infections. The evidence for and nature of impaired immunity in these animals is reviewed. Our knowledge of the extent and nature of protective immunity induced by natural BVDV infections and vaccines is still in its infancy. Significant new information on the bovine immune response to BVDV antigens, however, has been identified in recent years. These data are reviewed and related to prospects for improved immunoprophylaxis against diseases caused by the virus.


pmid: 1333814
title: Viral agents and associated lesions detected in a 10-year study of bovine abortions and stillbirths
abstract: In a 10-year survey started in 1980, specimens from 8,995 bovine abortions and stillbirths were submitted to the South Dakota Animal Disease Research and Diagnostic Laboratory. Of these, 8,962 were suitable for some type of examination. Viruses were associated with 948 (10.58%). Bovine herpesvirus-1 (IBR) was detected in 485 (5.41%), and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was detected in 407 (4.54%). In 1 year of the survey, BVDV was detected in 8/32 fetuses that had lesions of passive congestion. Bovine herpesvirus-4 was isolated from 47 specimens (0.52%), parvovirus and enterovirus were each isolated from 2, and adenovirus, parainfluenza virus, and pseudorabies virus were each isolated from 1. Malignant lymphoid neoplasia was present in 2 fetuses, and their abortion was assumed to have been caused by the bovine leukosis virus.


pmid: 6375112
title: The neutralizing peroxidase-linked assay for detection of antibody against swine fever virus
abstract: The neutralizing peroxidase-linked antibody ( NPLA ) assay was standardized and compared with the micro-plaque reduction test (PRT) on series of sera from pigs infected with different strains of swine fever virus (SFV) and bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV), swine fever reference sera and field sera. The NPLA system was found to be as sensitive as the PRT, it detected SFV antibody in 17 out of 18 pigs 3 weeks after intranasal exposure and differentiated between antibody against SFV and BVDV. With varying concentrations of SFV parallel lines of neutralization with a slope of about 120 degrees were obtained with sera of different origin. The regression coefficient of approximately -1.74 implies that a 10-fold increase in the virus dose will result in an approximate 3.8-fold decrease in the serum titre. The NPLA assay has a high capacity and has been found to be a great asset in large scale surveys for detection of neutralizing antibody against SFV.


pmid: 34780603
title: Investigation into Causes of Antler Deformities in Mule Deer (Odocoileus hemionus) Bucks in Southern Utah, USA
abstract: We investigated causes of antler deformities in mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) bucks from the Paunsaugunt Plateau in southern Utah, US. A total of 10 hunter-harvested and nine live-captured bucks with antler deformities and six hunter-harvested and 43 live-captured bucks with normal antlers were included in the study. All were screened by serology for exposure to epizootic hemorrhagic disease virus (EHDV) types 1, 2, and 6, bluetongue virus, Brucella abortus, Brucella ovis, caprine arthritis, encephalitis virus, and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) types 1 and 2. Serum testosterone and trace minerals concentrations were measured, and whole-blood counts evaluated. Testicular tissue from the hunter-harvested bucks was tested by quantitative PCR for EHDV-1, -2, and -6. All bucks with antler deformities had low to non-detectable serum testosterone concentrations from end-stage fibrosing orchitis, and EHDV-2 was detected by quantitative PCR in one of the testicular tissues tested. All bucks with antler deformities were seropositive for EHDV-2. In comparison, only 53% of bucks with normal antlers were EHDV-2 seropositive. More than 67% of hunter-harvested and live-captured bucks had antibodies to BVDV-1 and BVDV-2, probably because of high cattle exposure in the area. Our results support previous research linking infection with EHDV-2 to development of antler deformities; however, it remains unclear why some infected bucks develop testicular fibrosis, and others recover from the infection.


pmid: 11485413
title: Evidence for the presence of two novel pestivirus species
abstract: The genus Pestivirus of the family Flaviviridae comprises four species, namely Bovine viral diarrhea virus-1 (BVDV-1), BVDV-2, Border disease virus (BDV), and Classical swine fever virus (CSFV). Comparative analyses of partial sequences have suggested that pestivirus isolates from giraffe (Giraffe-1) and reindeer (Reindeer-1) are distinct from the established species (Becher et al., Virology 262, 64--71, 1999). In this study, we report the complete genomic sequences of pestivirus strains Giraffe-1 and Reindeer-1. Comparative sequence analyses revealed considerable differences among Giraffe-1, Reindeer-1, and the currently recognized pestivirus species. Phylogenetic analysis of the complete coding sequences of these two strains, along with 13 other sequences representing the four established species, indicated that CSFV, BDV, and Reindeer-1 have bifurcated from one common branch and BVDV-1 and BVDV-2 from another. In the former branch BDV and the pestivirus from reindeer are more similar to each other than to CSFV. The giraffe pestivirus is equally distinct from both major branches. In addition, the antigenic relatedness of pestivirus isolates covering the observed major genetic groups was studied by cross-neutralization assays. A clustering procedure on the basis of antigenic differences indicated the presence of six major groups corresponding to the genetically defined groups. Taken together, the results of our analyses addressing both nucleotide sequence relatedness and serological relatedness argue for the inclusion of Giraffe-1 and Reindeer-1 as the first members of two separate novel species within the genus Pestivirus.


pmid: 10028175
title: Prevalence and geographic distribution of bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) infection in Finland 1993-1997
abstract: Bulk milk samples from every herd supplying milk to dairies in Finland were examined for the presence of antibodies to BVD virus (BVDV) annually during 1993-1997. The highest prevalence, 0.99% in 1994, declined to 0.37% in 1996; however, this favourable trend appeared to discontinue in 1997, where the prevalence remained at 0.41%. In 1993, sera of all individual animals from bulk milk antibody-positive herds were examined for the presence of these antibodies. Since 1994, only sera of animals from herds with a bulk milk absorbance reading greater than 0.250 in the EIA test were examined individually. Three geographic foci of BVDV antibody-positive dairy herds were resolved in 1994, one in the north-western, another in the eastern and a diffuse third in the southern part of Finland. A distinct limiting of the spread was apparent in 1997. Beef cattle were also studied during 1993-1997; in 1993 breeding units, in 1994 mainly beef suckler herds and in 1995-1997 serum samples of beef animals at slaughter were examined for the presence of antibodies to BVDV. The prevalence of seropositive herds in 1993 and 1994 was 30.2% and 3.2%, respectively, while the prevalence among slaughter animals ranged 0.8-1.6%. Seronegative animals in herds with > 50% of seropositive animals were examined for the presence of BVD-virus. A total of 40 dairy herds and two beef herds with viraemic (persistently infected, PI) animals was encountered during 1993-1997. A comprehensive control programme and a more specific, cooperatively funded eradication programme for dairy cattle were launched in 1994. These programmes most probably contributed to the decline in prevalence during 1994-1996.


pmid: 9673578
title: Experimental infection with Babesia divergens in cattle persistently infected with bovine virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: Nine Norwegian Red cattle, aged 7-14 months, persistently infected with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) were inoculated with a Swedish strain of Babesia divergens. Six persistently infected cattle of the same age and breed were kept as controls. Blood and serum samples were collected regularly during the observation period. Rectal temperatures were recorded every morning for 25 days post infection, and the animals were examined clinically on a daily basis. Sera were examined for antibodies to B. divergens by indirect immunofluorescence antibody test (IFAT). Eight of the infected animals developed fever of 2-5 days duration. Babesia divergens organisms appeared in the erythrocytes of all infected animals on the day after inoculation. The parasitaemia lasted for 4-11 days. One animal had a transient haemoglobinuria. Compared with the control group, there was a 20% decrease in the haematocrit. There was a transient lymphopenia and thrombocytopenia during the period of fever. There were no differences in mean numbers of neutrophils between the two persistently infected groups. Compared with cattle free of BVDV, the persistently infected cattle had consistently lower total leucocyte count that was mainly due to decreased mean numbers of neutrophils and monocytes. All infected animals develop antibodies > or = 1:1280 between day 7 and 10 post infection. The magnitude of the antibody response was considerably lower than that of BVDV-free animals inoculated with the same strain and dosage of B.divergens.


pmid: 8648755
title: Processing in the pestivirus E2-NS2 region: identification of proteins p7 and E2p7
abstract: The pestivirus genome encodes a single polyprotein which is subject to co- and posttranslational processing by cellular and viral proteases. The map positions of all virus-encoded proteins are known with the exception of a hypothetical peptide (p?) which interlinks the glycoprotein E2 and the nonstructural protein NS2-3 approximately between amino acid positions 1060 and 1130. Expression studies with recombinant vaccinia viruses bearing a set of C-terminally truncated E2-p?-NS2-encoding sequences derived from a bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strain led to the identification of a minor fraction of E2 which had an increased molecular mass due to a C-terminal extension. This larger form of E2 (E2p7) was specifically recognized by an antiserum raised against the amino acid sequence from 1065 to 1125. In addition, the antibodies revealed a BVDV-encoded 7-kDa protein (p7) in infected cells. By radiosequencing it was determined that Val-1067 was the N-terminal amino acid of in vitro-synthesized p7. Analyses of BVDV and classical swine fever virus virions suggest that neither p7 nor E2p7 is a major structural constituent.


pmid: 1335310
title: Thermal and pH stability of pestiviruses
abstract: Three strains/isolates of hog cholera virus (HCV) and two strains/isolates each of cytopathogenic (cp) and non-cytopathogenic (ncp) biotype of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) were each exposed to pH 3, 3.5 and 4 at 4 degrees C, 21 degrees C and 37 degrees C in a number of combinations. Infectivity titration and half-life determinations following correlation and regression analysis showed a significant temperature-dependent shortening of half-lives within the pH range investigated. At pH 3, mean half-lives were more than tenfold lower when HCV was kept at an ambient temperature of 21 degrees C rather than at 4 degrees C. Additionally, in some of the strains/isolates tested, half-lives of HCV kept at 4 degrees C were four to ten times lower when the pH was raised from 3 to 4. BVDV appeared more sensitive at 4 degrees C and pH 3 than HCV, but equally sensitive at 21 degrees C. Differences in temperature or pH stability between cp and ncp biotypes of BVDV could not be statistically verified although, in general, the cp biotypes seemed to be more stable than the ncp strains/isolates.


pmid: 24760759
title: A bi-cistronic, reporter-encoding bovine viral diarrhea virus applied in a new, effective diagnostic test
abstract: Infections with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) have a huge economic impact on cattle production and reproduction worldwide. A key factor for BVDV surveillance and eventual eradication is to efficiently detect infections and to monitor herd immunity. In this study, we generated a stable, bi-cistronic BVDV that encoded EGFP in addition to the viral proteins. Applying this recombinant virus, a new flow-cytometry-based virus neutralization test was established that enabled accurate and reliable detection of field-virus-infected and vaccinated animals. The test, which is simple and fast, is expected to support novel, effective screening procedures in eradication and vaccination programmes.


pmid: 19720145
title: Inhibition of bovine viral diarrhea virus in vitro by xanthohumol: comparisons with ribavirin and interferon-alpha and implications for the development of anti-hepatitis C virus agents
abstract: Xanthohumol (XN) is a natural compound with potential antiviral activity. In this study, the ability of XN to inhibit bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a surrogate model of hepatitis C virus (HCV), was investigated. The antiviral activity of XN was compared with that of ribavirin (RBV) and interferon (IFN)-alpha. The results showed that XN could inhibit BVDV induced cytopathic effects (CPE). At 1000 TCID(50) and 100 TCID(50), the values of 50% effective concentration (EC(50)) were 3.24+/-0.02 mg/l and 2.77+/-0.19 mg/l, respectively, and the therapeutic indices were >7.72 and >9.03, respectively. XN inhibited BVDV E2 expression and viral RNA levels in a dose-dependent manner. At 6.25mg/l, XN decreased the viral RNA from released virus by 3.83 log 10 at 1000 TCID(50) and to an undetectable level at 100 TCID(50), and decreased the viral RNA level in whole cell culture by 3.36 log 10 and 2.88 log 10 at 1000 TCID(50) and 100 TCID(50), respectively. The inhibitory activity of XN on CPE, BVDV E2 expression and viral RNA levels was stronger than that of RBV and weaker than that of IFN-alpha. These results indicate the need to investigate the anti-HCV potential of XN.


pmid: 11503899
title: Genotypes of pestivirus RNA detected in live virus vaccines for human use
abstract: Live virus vaccines for human use, 29 monovalent vaccines against measles, mumps, rubella or polio, eight polyvalent vaccines against measles-mumps-rubella and one bacterial polyvalent vaccine against Streptococcus pneumoniae, were tested by reverse transcriptase-nested PCR for the presence of petivirus or pestivirus RNA. Twenty-four samples were selected from European manufacturers, ten were from U.S.A. and four from Japan. Five (13.1%) out of 38 tested samples were positive for pestivirus RNA. Three vaccines (rubella and two measles) were from Europe and two (mumps and rubella) from Japan. The 5'-untranslated genomic region of the contaminant pestivirus RNA were amplified by reverse transcription-PCR and sequenced. Analyses based on primary nucleotide sequence homology and on secondary structures, characteristic to genotypes, revealed that the cDNA sequences belonged to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). A cDNA sequence, detected from one measles sample, belonged to BVDV-1b genotype. Pestiviral cDNA detected from the Japanese mumps and rubella vaccine samples, belonged to the BVDV genotypes 1a and 1c, respectively. Analysis on two cDNA sequences detected from measles and rubella vaccine samples from Europe showed their appurtenance to a new genotype, BVDV-1d. These findings indicate that contamination by animal pestivirus may occur in biological products for human use.


pmid: 30541417
title: Bovine viral diarrhea in captive Rocky Mountain bighorn sheep associated with administration of a contaminated modified-live bluetongue virus vaccine
abstract: In late summer 2017, we observed acute, fatal cases of bovine viral diarrhea in captive Rocky Mountain bighorn sheep ( Ovis canadensis canadensis) in Colorado following use of a contaminated modified-live bluetongue virus vaccine. Following vaccination, at least 14 of 28 (50%) vaccinated bighorn sheep developed hemorrhagic diarrhea, and 6 of 28 (21%) vaccinated bighorn sheep died. Autopsy findings were predominantly necroulcerative-to-necrohemorrhagic gastrointestinal lesions. Less frequent lesions included suffusive hemorrhages of serosal surfaces of abdominal viscera, and lymphoid necrosis in gut-associated lymphoid tissues. All of the 6 bighorn sheep that died were positive on real-time PCR (rtPCR) for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in multiple tissues. Seroconversion to BVDV-1 and immunohistochemistry for BVDV in affected tissues confirmed rtPCR results. Next-generation sequencing confirmed a match between the infecting strain of BVDV-1b and the contaminated vaccine.


pmid: 26071653
title: Genetic detection and characterization of emerging HoBi-like viruses in archival foetal bovine serum batches
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) are members of the Pestivirus genus within the family Flaviviridae. Based on antigenic and nucleotide differences, BVDV are classified into two recognized species, BVDV-1 and BVDV-2. More recently, a new putative pestivirus species, tentatively called "HoBi-like", has been associated with bovine viral diarrhea. HoBi-like viruses were first identified in fetal bovine serum (FBS) imported from Brazil. Subsequently, a number of HoBi-like viruses have been detected as contaminants in FBS or cell culture and in live ruminants. To further investigate the possible pestivirus contamination in commercially available FBS batches, 26 batches of FBS with various countries of origin, were tested in this study for the presence of bovine pestiviruses. All the 26 batches were positive by RT-PCR for at least one species of bovine pestiviruses. HoBi-like viruses were detected in 15 batches. Analysis of the 5'UTR and N(pro) sequences of 15 newly identified HoBi-like viruses combined with analysis of additional sequences from GenBank, identified 4 genetic groups tentatively named 3a-3d. The current study confirmed the presence of the emerging HoBi-like viruses in FBS products labeled with different geographic origins. This finding has obvious implications for the safety of biological products, such cell lines and vaccines.


pmid: 21612789
title: Characterization of apoptosis pathways (intrinsic and extrinsic) in lymphoid tissues of calves inoculated with non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhoea virus genotype-1
abstract: Previous studies have shown that activation of effector caspase-3 is associated with the apoptosis of lymphocytes occurring during infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV); however, the regulation of the apoptosis pathways that induce cell death via activation of effector caspase-3 has not yet been clarified. The aim of this study was to examine immunohistochemically the expression of cleaved caspase (CCasp)-8 (initiator caspase of the extrinsic pathway), CCasp9 (initiator caspase of the intrinsic pathway) and Bcl-2 (an anti-apoptotic marker) in gut-associated lymphoid tissue (GALT) of the ileum from calves inoculated with a non-cytopathic strain of BVDV genotype-1. CCasp8 had similar expression to that of CCasp3. In interfollicular T-cell areas there was moderate apoptosis and evidence of moderate activation of initiator caspase-8. In B-cell follicles there was marked lymphocyte apoptosis and evidence of intense caspase-8 activation, highlighting the potentially major role of the extrinsic pathway in lymphocyte apoptosis in the GALT during BVDV infection. Additionally, there was a significant decrease in the number of CCasp9(+) cells from the start of the experiment and this was linked to inactivation of caspase-9. Therefore, the intrinsic pathway may play only a minor role in the induction of lymphocyte apoptosis. Finally, the observed overexpression of Bcl-2 protein could play a major role in protecting lymphocytes in the T-cell areas against apoptosis, while low levels of Bcl-2 expression could be associated with the follicular lymphocyte apoptosis occurring during BVDV infection.


pmid: 16039701
title: Seroconversion of calves following intravenous injection with embryos exposed to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in vitro
abstract: Two recent studies demonstrated that a high-affinity isolate of BVDV (SD-1), remained associated with a small percentage of in vivo-derived bovine embryos following artificial exposure to the virus and either washing or trypsin treatment. Further, the embryo-associated virus was infective in an in vitro environment. Therefore, the objective of this study was to determine if the quantity of a high-affinity isolate of BVDV associated with single-washed or trypsin-treated embryos could cause infection in vivo. Twenty zona-pellucida-intact morulae and blastocysts (MB) were collected on day 7 from superovulated cows. After collection, all MB were washed according to International Embryo Transfer Society (IETS) standards, and all but 4 MB (negative controls) were exposed for 2 h to 10(5)-10(6) cell culture infective doses (50% endpoint) per milliliter (CCID(50)/mL) of viral strain SD-1. Following exposure, according to IETS standards, one half of the MB were washed and one half were trypsin treated. All MB were then individually sonicated, and sonicate fluids were injected intravenously into calves on day 0. Blood was drawn to monitor for viremia and(or) seroconversion. Seroconversion of calves injected with sonicate fluids from washed and trypsin-treated embryos occurred 38% and 13% of the time, respectively. Therefore, the quantity of a high-affinity isolate of BVDV associated with single-washed or trypsin-treated embryos was infective in vivo.


pmid: 15070734
title: The structure of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase from bovine viral diarrhea virus establishes the role of GTP in de novo initiation
abstract: The bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) RNA-dependent RNA polymerase can initiate RNA replication by a de novo mechanism without a primer. The structure of BVDV polymerase, determined to 2.9-A resolution, contains a unique N-terminal domain, in addition to the fingers, palm, and thumb domains common to other polymerases. The structure of BVDV polymerase complexed with GTP, which is required for de novo (primer-independent) initiation, shows that GTP binds adjacent to the initiation NTP, suggesting that the GTP mimics a vestigial RNA product. Comparison of five monomers in two different crystal forms showed conformational changes in the fingertip region and in the thumb domain that may help to translocate the RNA template and product strands during elongation. The putative binding sites of previously reported BVDV inhibitors are also discussed.


pmid: 32173670
title: Screening of persistently infected cattle with bovine viral diarrhea virus on dairy farms by using milk tanker and bulk tank milk samples for viral RNA and viral-specific antibody detection
abstract: The objective of this study was to provide a screening scheme of persistently infected (PI) cattle on dairy herds by combining reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) to detect bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in milk tanker samples and commercial enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to detect BVDV antibodies in bulk tank milk. We conducted a pilot survey and regional survey targeting all dairy farms in Ibaraki Prefecture by using milk tanker and bulk tank milk samples to screen PI cattle. Farms with positive samples underwent a follow-up test to identify PI cattle. In the pilot study, all virus-positive samples in bulk tank milk were included in the positive milk tanker samples. The RT-PCR assay successfully detected BVDV at dilutions of 1:1,600 by using two PI cows' milk. In the regional survey, 5 of 79 milk tanker samples were virus-positive. The virus was detected in three PI lactating cows and one PI calf on three farms. Antibody screening using bulk tank milk samples revealed 15 of 363 samples were positive, and 12 of 348 farms were BVDV antibody-positive. Follow-up tests on one farm identified three PI calves. Thus, eight PI cattle on five farms were identified in this study. In conclusion, combining BVDV detection using milk tanker samples and antibody detection using bulk tank milk is a feasible and economical method to efficiently screen PI cattle and confirm the PI-free status among dairy herds.


pmid: 20154164
title: Effects of exposure to calves persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1b and subsequent infection with Mannheima haemolytica on clinical signs and immune variables: model for bovine respiratory disease via viral and bacterial interaction
abstract: The objective was to determine effects of an intratracheal Mannheimia haemolytica challenge after 72-h exposure to bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1b (BVDV1b) persistently infected (PI) calves on serum antibody production, white blood cell count (WBC), cytokine concentrations, and blood gases in feedlot steers. Twenty-four steers (initial BW = 314 +/- 31 kg) were randomly allocated to 1 of 4 treatments (6 steers/treatment) arranged as a 2 x 2 factorial. Treatments were 1) steers not exposed to steers PI with BVDV nor challenged with M. haemolytica (control; CON); 2) steers exposed to 2 steers PI with BVDV for 72 h (BVD); 3) steers intratracheally challenged with M. haemolytica (MH); and 4) steers exposed to 2 steers PI with BVDV for 72 h and challenged with M. haemolytica (BVD+MH). There were 12 h between exposure to PI steers and challenge with M. haemolytica. Rectal temperature was increased (P < 0.001) for MH and BVD+MH during the initial 24 h after the M. haemolytica challenge. For MH and BVD+MH, total WBC count was increased (P < 0.01) at 36 h post M. haemolytica challenge compared with CON, whereas in BVD steers, WBC count was decreased (P < 0.01). Total lymphocyte count was increased (P = 0.004) during the initial 72 h post BVDV exposure for the BVD and BVD+MH groups compared with MH and CON, and this difference remained at 96 h post M. haemolytica challenge. An increased (P < 0.001) total neutrophil count was observed during the initial 36 h for the MH group and at 72 h for the BVD+MH challenge group. Interleukin 1beta, IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) concentrations were greater (P <or= 0.04) in BVD steers than steers not exposed to BVDV, and interferon gamma, IL-1beta, and TNFalpha were greater (P <or= 0.02) in MH steers than in steers not challenged with M. haemolytica. There were BVD x MH interactions (P <or= 0.04) for plasma carbon dioxide, carbonic acid, and sodium bicarbonate concentrations. Challenge with M. haemolytica decreased carbon dioxide, carbonic acid, and sodium bicarbonate concentrations to a greater extent when steers were not exposed to PI steers compared with steers exposed to BVDV. We conclude that the challenge model was successful at inducing bovine respiratory disease (BRD) associated with BVDV and M. haemolytica. Understanding the physiological changes in morbid animals will lead to improved strategies for decreasing severity and economic losses associated with BRD.


pmid: 26907209
title: Effects of exposure to Bovine viral diarrhoea virus 1 on risk of bovine respiratory disease in Australian feedlot cattle
abstract: Viruses play a key role in the complex aetiology of bovine respiratory disease (BRD). Bovine viral diarrhoea virus 1 (BVDV-1) is widespread in Australia and has been shown to contribute to BRD occurrence. As part of a prospective longitudinal study on BRD, effects of exposure to BVDV-1 on risk of BRD in Australian feedlot cattle were investigated. A total of 35,160 animals were enrolled at induction (when animals were identified and characteristics recorded), held in feedlot pens with other cattle (cohorts) and monitored for occurrence of BRD over the first 50days following induction. Biological samples collected from all animals were tested to determine which animals were persistently infected (PI) with BVDV-1. Data obtained from the Australian National Livestock Identification System database were used to determine which groups of animals that were together at the farm of origin and at 28days prior to induction (and were enrolled in the study) contained a PI animal and hence to identify animals that had probably been exposed to a PI animal prior to induction. Multi-level Bayesian logistic regression models were fitted to estimate the effects of exposure to BVDV-1 on the risk of occurrence of BRD. Although only a total of 85 study animals (0.24%) were identified as being PI with BVDV-1, BVDV-1 was detected on quantitative polymerase chain reaction in 59% of cohorts. The PI animals were at moderately increased risk of BRD (OR 1.9; 95% credible interval 1.0-3.2). Exposure to BVDV-1 in the cohort was also associated with a moderately increased risk of BRD (OR 1.7; 95% credible interval 1.1-2.5) regardless of whether or not a PI animal was identified within the cohort. Additional analyses indicated that a single quantitative real-time PCR test is useful for distinguishing PI animals from transiently infected animals. The results of the study suggest that removal of PI animals and/or vaccination, both before feedlot entry, would reduce the impact of BVDV-1 on BRD risk in cattle in Australian feedlots. Economic assessment of these strategies under Australian conditions is required.


pmid: 21851662
title: A survey of antibodies to pestivirus in sheep in the Republic of Ireland
abstract: : Sera from 1,448 adult ewes in 91 flocks, representing all 26 counties in the Republic of Ireland, were examined for pestivirus antibodies using a commercially available ELISA which detected IgG1 antibody to border disease virus. Eighty-one sheep (5.6%) in 42 flocks (46.0%) were antibody-positive. Within infected flocks, the mean seroprevalence level was 11.4% with a range of 6.3% to 30.0%. The highest antibody prevalence was detected in sheep from central lowland counties of Ireland. Comparative neutralisation testing of 42 ELISA-positive sera detected geometric mean antibody titres of 136 to the NADL strain of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), 92 to the Moredun strain of border disease virus and 21 to the 137/4 strain of border disease virus. These results suggest that BVDV may be the major ruminant pestivirus infecting sheep in Ireland. Although there are high numbers of infected flocks, many sheep within such flocks remain antibody-negative and are at risk of giving birth to lambs with congenital border disease.


pmid: 34062370
title: Seroprevalence of selected endemic infectious diseases in large-scale Estonian dairy herds and their associations with cow longevity and culling rates
abstract: Herd culling rates and longevity represent herd health and welfare status as well as farm economic performance. The contribution of endemic circulation of the main cattle pathogens to herd performance has not been previously analysed. The aim of this study was to estimate the herd prevalence of selected endemic bovine pathogens among large commercial dairy herds and to analyse their associations with herd culling rates and longevity. Bulk tank milk (BTM) samples and 10 heifer serum samples were collected from 120 Estonian dairy herds with at least 100 cows, between August 2019 and July 2020. All samples were tested for antibodies against bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1), bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), Mycoplasma bovis, Mycobacterium avium spp. paratuberculosis (MAP) and Salmonella Dublin using commercial ELISA. Data on herd size, milk yield, culling rate (CR) and mean age of the culled cows (MAofCC) were collected from the Estonian Livestock Performance Recording Ltd. The apparent herd and animal prevalences were calculated, and linear regression models were used to identify associations between the herd status of six tested pathogens and CR and MAofCC. The herd seroprevalences for antibodies based on BTM and heifer serum sample testing were BHV-1 56.7 % (95 % CI 47.3; 65.7), Mycoplasma bovis 48.3 % (95 % CI 39.1; 57.6), MAP 2.5 % (95 % CI 0.5; 7.1) and S. Dublin 24.2 % (95 % CI 16.8; 32.8) in all tested herds. Excluding vaccinated herds, herds prevalence for BVDV was 27.0 % (95 % CI 19.0; 36.3) and for BRSV 94.7 % (95 % CI 88.1; 98.3). Herd seropositive status for BRSV was associated with lower MAofCC, and herds with BSRV-seropositive youngstock had increased CR. Herds with positive BTM test results for S. Dublin culled cows at an older average age (Coef = 3.79 months, 95 % CI 0.52; 7.07, p = 0.023). MAP-positive herds had somewhat lower herd MAofCC (Coef = -6.18 months, 95 % CI -12.98; 0.63, p = 0.075). There was also a tendency of BVDV-negative herds to have a lower CR than BVDV-positive herds (Coef = -3.03 %, 95 % CI -6.54; 0.49, p = 0.090), and vaccination against BVDV tended to be protective against high CR (Coef = -6.26 %, 95 % CI -12.61; 0.09, p = 0.053 compared to infected herds). This study shows that Estonian large-scale dairy herds are endemically infected with several important cattle pathogens. Most of the studied pathogens influence longevity and culling rates, thus entailing health and economic consequences.


pmid: 14516916
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus as a surrogate model of hepatitis C virus for the evaluation of antiviral agents
abstract: The identification and development of new antiviral agents that can be used to combat hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection has been complicated by both technical and logistic issues. There are few, if any, robust methods by which HCV virions can be grown in vitro. The development of HCV RNA replicons has been a great breakthrough that has allowed for the undertaking of significant screening efforts to identify inhibitors of HCV intracellular replication. However, since replicons do not undergo a complete replication cycle, drug screening programs and mechanism of action studies based solely on these assays will not identify compounds targeting either early (virion attachment, entry, uncoating) or late (virion assembly, egress) stages of the viral replication cycle. Drugs that negatively affect the infectivity of new virions will also not be identified using HCV RNA replicons. Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) shares a similar structural organization with HCV, and both viruses generally cause chronic long-term infections in their respective hosts. The BVDV surrogate model is attractive, since it is a virus-based system. It is easy to culture the virus in vitro, molecular clones are available for genetic studies, and the virus undergoes a complete replication cycle. Like HCV, BVDV utilizes the LDL receptor to enter cells, uses a functionally similar internal ribosome entry site (IRES) for translation, uses an NS4A cofactor with its homologous NS3 protease, has a similar NS3 helicase/NTPase, a mechanistically similar NS5B RNA-dependent RNA polymerase, and a seemingly equivalent mechanism of virion maturation, assembly and egress. While the concordance between drugs active in either BVDV or HCV is largely unknown at this time, BVDV remains a popular model system with which drugs can be evaluated for potential antiviral activity against HCV and in studies of drug mechanism of action.


pmid: 29615247
title: Evaluation of bovine viral diarrhea virus transmission potential to naïve calves by direct and indirect exposure routes
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) can cause both acute and persistent infections in cattle. Exposure to BVDV persistently infected (PI) animals results in transmission of the virus to a naïve animal which causes a transient acute infection. While it is known that direct exposure to PI animals is a highly efficient means of transmission, less information is available regarding the potential for transmission from acutely infected either by direct or indirect exposure to naïve animals. Therefore, the objective of this study was to evaluate the potential for spread of the virus from calves acutely infected, with typical virulence field viruses know to have minimal shedding and viremia, to naïve contact animals either by direct or indirect exposure. To accomplish this objective, two BVDV isolates belonging to two species of BVDV, type 1 and type 2, were used to inoculate calves. Subsequently on day 2 post-infection, naïve calves were exposed to inoculated calves, either directly or indirectly, over a period of two weeks. All calves were evaluated for the presence of virus in blood samples and nasal swabs, pyrexia, lymphopenia and seroconversion. BVDV was isolated from inoculated calves but not from any of the direct and indirect contact animals or from control calves. Similarly, pyrexia and lymphopenia were observed in the inoculated calves, but not in contact and control calves. Only the inoculated calves seroconverted by day 38 of the study indicating that no transmission had occurred to the naïve contact calves. This data would suggest that there may be an infectious dose needed for transmission of virus for typical virulent isolates.


pmid: 17823400
title: Transmission of bovine viral diarrhea virus to adult goats from persistently infected cattle
abstract: The transmission of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) from persistently infected (PI) heifers to adult seronegative goats was examined in this study. Ten seronegative adult goats were exposed to 4 PI heifers. None of the goats developed any clinical signs but all goats seroconverted by 42 days after exposure to the PI cattle. Results indicate that goats are susceptible to BVDV infection when housed with PI cattle.


pmid: 8581857
title: The pathologies of bovine viral diarrhea virus infection. A window on the pathogenesis
abstract: Pathologic lesions caused by bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections comprise a wide spectrum of type, degree, and, by implication, pathogenesis, including congenital defects, necroticerosive lesions in mucosal epithelia and skin, and reactive as well as degenerative changes in lymphoid tissues. At least some of the pathology may not be solely due to BVDV replication per se, but rather caused by a host response to the virus, particularly the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines.


pmid: 2926719
title: Thrombocytopenia associated with acute bovine virus diarrhea infection in cattle
abstract: Thrombocytopenia was observed in 15 of 146 cases of clinically acute bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in adult cattle. Platelet counts ranged from 2,000 to 33,000/microliters. Clinically, a bleeding tendency was manifested by bloody diarrhea, petechial and ecchymotic hemorrhage, epistaxis, and abnormal bleeding from injection sites. Coagulation testing (six cases) gave no evidence of disseminated intravascular coagulation. Bone marrow aspirates were suggestive of active marrow necrosis (two cases) or recent repopulation (three cases). Treatment, when given, was supportive and empirical in nature. Six animals experienced complete clinical recoveries; the others died or were euthanatized. Although the pathogenesis of the thrombocytopenia was not definitively determined, thrombocytopenia associated with acute BVDV infection should be considered in the differential diagnosis for cattle with bleeding disorders.


pmid: 21358277
title: RNA recombination in pestiviruses: cellular RNA sequences in viral genomes highlight the role of host factors for viral persistence and lethal disease
abstract: Persistence of the positive strand RNA virus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in its host may last for years. However, it frequently ends in lethal disease triggered by emerging virus mutants created by RNA recombination. Those mutant genomes often encompass cellular mRNA fragments. Persistence of BVDV depends on a mechanism limiting viral RNA replication efficiency. This restriction is based on the dependency of a viral protease on a cellular cofactor available only in limiting amounts. Virus mutants leading to progression from persistence to lethal disease elude this regulatory mechanism by various genomic changes achieved by RNA recombination. Cell culture based studies on the underlying mechanisms demonstrated that RNA recombination occurs even in the absence of an active viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. This implicates that mechanisms besides the commonly accepted replicative template switching model are involved in viral RNA recombination.


pmid: 16727438
title: Noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus in a system for in vitro production of bovine embryos
abstract: Techniques for in vitro production of bovine embryos have evolved to the extent that applications for the commercial production of calves have been proposed. However, little is known about the epidemiological implications of the procedures. One concern is the introduction of noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). In this study, follicular oocytes (n=247) collected from 10 cows were matured and fertilized in vitro and presumptive zygotes were cultured for 7 d. Primary cultures of bovine oviductal epithelial cells for use during in vitro fertilization and culture were divided into 2 groups. Treated oviductal cells were infected with BVDV while control cells were not exposed to the virus. Two approximately equal groups of mature oocytes from each cow were inseminated, and the presumptive zygotes were cultured with infected or noninfected oviductal cells. After 7 d in culture, zona pellucida-intact morulae/blastocysts and degenerated ova were washed, sonicated and assayed for the presence of virus. The rates of cleavage and development were also compared by Chi-square analysis. After washing, virus was not isolated from morulae and blastocysts but was isolated from some groups of degenerated ova. Infections of oviductal cells were inapparent and did not significantly (P>0.05) affect rates of cleavage or development.


pmid: 28588628
title: The effect of bovine viral diarrhea virus on bovine monocyte phenotype
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an economically important pathogen of the livestock industry worldwide. BVDV is classified into cytopathic (cp) and noncytopathic (ncp), depending on its effects on cultured cells. BVDV is known to alter the host's immune response. Of this, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecules play a central role in the development and function of the immune system, and are comprised of two types, DR and DQ, in cattle. In this study, we investigated the expression of MHC class II on monocytes infected with ncp BVDV1 or ncp BVDV2. Using flow cytometry (P<0.01), mRNA level quantification (quantitative real time RT-PCR, P<0.01), and western blot (P<0.001), we found that the expressions of MHC class IIDQ was significantly decreased in ncp BVDV2-infected monocytes compared with that in ncp BVDV1-infected cells. Furthermore, interferon gamma (IFN) production was markedly decreased in ncp BVDV2-infected monocytes (P<0.001) compared to those with ncp BVDV1 infection. These findings suggest that ncp BVDV2 causes reduced expressions of MHC class II DQ and a decreased production of IFN, resulting in evasion of immune recognition and suppression of the antiviral defense mechanism of the innate immune response. Consequently, the results demonstrate that ncp BVDV1 and ncp BVDV2 interact differently with the host innate immune response. Thus, our data provide insight into the mechanism by which, unlike ncp BVDV1, ncp BVDV2 impairs antigen presentation, fails to control the viral infection, and causes more severe disease.


pmid: 24874197
title: Recombinant pestivirus E2 glycoproteins prevent viral attachment to permissive and non permissive cells with different efficiency
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is an economically important animal pathogen, which like other pestiviruses has similar molecular biological features to hepaciviruses, including human Hepatitis C virus. The pestivirus E2 glycoproteins are the major target for virus-neutralising antibodies, as well as playing a role in receptor binding and host range restriction. In this study, recombinant E2 glycoproteins (rE2) derived from three different pestivirus species were examined for their inhibitory effects on pestivirus infectivity in cell culture. Histidine-tagged rE2 glycoproteins of BVDV type 2 strain 178003, BVDV type 1 strain Oregon C24V and CSFV strain Alfort 187 were produced in Spodoptera frugiperda insect cells and purified under native conditions. The ability of rE2 glycoprotein to inhibit the infection of permissive cells by both homologous and heterologous virus was compared, revealing that the inhibitory effects of rE2 glycoproteins correlated with the predicted similarity of the E2 structures in the recombinant protein and the test virus. This result suggests that the sequence and structure of E2 are likely to be involved in the host specificity of pestiviruses at their point of uptake into cells.


pmid: 16843892
title: The structure of bovine viral diarrhea virus RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and its amino-terminal domain
abstract: Viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerases (RdRp) differ from DNA-dependent RNA polymerases, DNA-dependent DNA polymerases, and reverse transcriptases in that RdRps contain "fingertips" consisting of several polypeptide strands in the fingers domain interacting with the thumb domain. The crystal structure of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) RdRp containing an Asn438 duplication shows that the "N-terminal domain," which occurs only in pestiviruses such as BVDV, interacts with the polymerase component of the same polypeptide chain. This contrasts with the domain swapping observed in the previously determined structure of the BVDV NADL strain RdRp. By comparison with the NADL structure and through the use of biochemical data, it is possible that the N-terminal domain, in conjunction with the fingertips, is required to bind and assist the translocation of the RNA template. The partial disorder of the loop containing the additional Asn438 residue may explain the low replication rate of the recombinant compared with the wild-type virus.


pmid: 15681445
title: Characterization of helper virus-independent cytopathogenic classical swine fever virus generated by an in vivo RNA recombination system
abstract: Molecular analyses revealed that most cytopathogenic (cp) pestivirus strains evolve from noncytopathogenic (noncp) viruses by nonhomologous RNA recombination. In contrast to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), cp classical swine fever virus (CSFV) field isolates were rarely detected and always represented helper virus-dependent subgenomes. To investigate RNA recombination in more detail, we recently established an in vivo system allowing the efficient generation of recombinant cp BVDV strains in cell culture after transfecting a synthetic subgenomic and nonreplicatable transcript into cells being infected with noncp BVDV (A. Gallei, A. Pankraz, H.-J. Thiel, and P. Becher, J. Virol. 78:6271-6281, 2004). Using an analogous approach, the first helper virus-independent cp CSFV strain (CP G1) has now been generated by RNA recombination. Accordingly, this study demonstrates the applicability of RNA recombination for designing new viral RNA genomes. The genomic RNA of CP G1 has a calculated size of 18.139 kb, almost 6 kb larger than all previously described CSFV genomes. It contains cellular sequences encoding a polyubiquitin fragment directly upstream of the nonstructural protein NS3 coding gene together with a duplication of viral sequences. CP G1 induces a cytopathic effect on different tissue culture cell lines from pigs and cattle. Subsequent analyses addressed growth kinetics, expression of NS3, and genetic stability of CP G1.


pmid: 15062471
title: Reproductive consequences of infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Reproductive efficiency is imperative for the maintenance of profitability in both dairy and cow-calf enterprises. Bovine viral diarrhea virus is an important infectious disease agent of cattle that can potentially have a negative effect on all phases of reproduction. Reduced conception rates,early embryonic deaths, abortions, congenital defects, and weak calves have all been associated BVDV infection of susceptible females. In addition, the birth of calves PI with BVDV as a result of in utero fetal exposure is extremely important in the perpetuation of the virus in an infected herd or spread to other susceptible herds. Bulls acutely or PI with BVDV may bea source of viral spread through either natural service or semen used in artificial insemination. Management practices including elimination of PI cattle, biosecurity measures and strategic use of vaccination can be implemented to reduce the risk of BVDV related reproductive losses. Development of vaccines and vaccine strategies capable of providing better protection against fetal infection would be of benefit.


pmid: 7653028
title: Comparison of the p125 coding region of bovine viral diarrhea viruses
abstract: The p125 (p54/p80) coding region of two cytopathic (CP) strains (Oregon and Singer) and two noncytopathic (NCP) strains (NY-1 and Draper) of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were amplified by the polymerase chain reaction, cloned and sequenced. The sequence data confirmed that the two CP strains do not possess any insertion or deletion in their p125 gene as observed in many other CP strains. In the p80, which showed a high amino acid sequence homology among all strains, no amino acid substitution should could be found which distinguished these CP strains from the NCP strains NY-1 and SD-1. Many amino acid substitutions were found in p54 but their individual importance in the CP phenotype is not clear since critical domains of p54 have not yet been experimentally defined. The p54 protein is much less conserved than p80, and sequence homology, as well as dendrogram analysis, permitted us to distinguish two genotypic groups of BVDV (Ia and Ib). The mean homology between strains of these two groups was 77.3/80.4% for the nucleic acid/amino acid sequences while it was 88.0/88.8% and 91.6/93.3% within groups Ia and Ib, respectively. Furthermore, we found that the p125 sequence of our NY-1 strain showed only 92% sequence homology with the partial p80 gene reported for NY-1 but 99.8% homology with another partial sequence of the p125 gene of NY-1 reported elsewhere. These observations underscored the difficulty of maintaining a specific BVDV strain, especially the NCP biotype, in cell cultures.


pmid: 7761700
title: Serum concentrations of thyroid hormones in calves with a transient or persistent infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Calves persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) often appear small for their age and it is possible that the virus interferes with their body metabolism by affecting the production of hormones. In this study, the serum concentrations of thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3) were measured in calves with transient or persistent BVDV infections. The mean (SD) concentrations of T3 and T4 were lower (P < 0.001) in the persistently infected calves (1.79 [0.67] and 69.2 [23.8] nmol litre-1, respectively) from three dairy herds than in age-matched control calves (2.39 [0.72] and 93.4 [22.1] nmol litre-1, respectively). In each herd, the thyroid hormone levels were also lower in the persistently infected calves than in the controls, the differences being significant (P < 0.05) with the exception of the T3 level in one herd. The girth of the infected calves over the heart was less (P < 0.001) than that of the controls, and, among the infected calves but not among the controls, there was a significant correlation between heart girth and the levels of T3 (r = 0.72, P < 0.001) and T4 (r = 0.60, P < 0.01). Six calves not previously exposed to BVDV were infected through nose-to-nose contact with a persistently infected calf. Their T3 and T4 levels were decreased seven days (P < 0.05 and not significant, respectively) and nine days (P < 0.001 and P < 0.01, respectively) after the infection, when the clinical signs of the disease appeared.


pmid: 7698882
title: Detection of bovine virus diarrhoea virus RNA by in situ hybridisation with digoxigenin-labelled riboprobes
abstract: A non-isotopic in situ hybridisation (ISH) method has been developed for the detection of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) RNA. The technique is highly specific and allows the detection of BVDV in formalin-fixed paraffin-wax-embedded sections. Digoxigenin-labelled riboprobes were generated to the coding region for the p125 non-structural protein and consequently it was possible to locate the virus positive-sense RNA in BVDV-infected tissues. Formalin-fixed tissues are ideal for ISH, combining the possibility of a retrospective analysis of tissues for virus distribution with excellent morphological preservation. In situ hybridisation has facilitated a precise examination, at the cellular level, of viral nucleic acid distribution during pestiviral infections, with an increased sensitivity and wider applicability than immunocytochemistry.


pmid: 8284507
title: Viral antibodies in bovine fetuses in Argentina
abstract: In order to establish the prevalence of viral infections of the bovine fetus in Argentina, a serological survey for antibodies against viral agents currently affecting cattle in this country was conducted. Antibodies against foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV), bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), bovine leukaemia virus (BLV), bovine rotavirus (BRV), bovine coronavirus (BCV), bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and parainfluenza-3 (PI-3) were investigated in a total of 315 fetal serum samples. Conventional techniques were used: indirect immunofluorescence (FMDV, BHV-1, BVDV and BCV), radial immunodiffusion (BLV), ELISA (BRV) and haemagglutination inhibition (PI-3). Antibodies against BHV-1, BVDV and PI-3 were detected in samples from fetuses in the second and third trimester of gestation, with a prevalence of 1.21 per cent (two of 165), 2.03 per cent (four of 197) and 5.08 per cent (nine of 177), respectively. Either antibodies or non-antibody factors able to bind to BRV and BCV antigens were detected with a prevalence of 2.44 per cent (five of 205) and 4.54 per cent (five of 110), respectively. In addition, 14.68 per cent of non-specific inhibitors of PI-3 mediated haemagglutination were found. No seropositives against FMDV and BLV were detected.


pmid: 8219812
title: Molecular characterization of positive-strand RNA viruses: pestiviruses and the porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV)
abstract: Molecular characterization has become an important tool for the analysis of viruses including their classification. The manuscript focuses on the molecular analysis of two members of the genus pestivirus (hog cholera virus, HCV and bovine viral diarrhea virus, BVDV) and of the recently discovered porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV). The first protein encoded within the single large pestivirus ORF is a nonstructural protein with autoproteolytic activity. The cleavage site between the protease and the capsid protein p14 has been predicted previously, but recent experimental data indicate that processing occurs at a different site. The capsid protein is followed by a putative internal signal sequence and three glycoproteins which are part of the virion envelope. According to a new proposal for the nomenclature of the structural proteins of pestiviruses they are termed C, E0, E1 and E2. The genomes of BVDV pairs isolated from animals which came down with mucosal disease were analyzed. The genomes from cytopathogenic (cp) BVD viruses may contain insertions highly homologous to cellular sequences. In addition, cp BVDV may differ from its non cytopathogenic (noncp) counterpart by mere rearrangement of viral sequences. The disease PRRS, which emerged a few years ago, is caused by a single strand RNA virus; the viral genome is of positive polarity and has a size of 15 kb. Data concerning morphology, morphogenesis and virion composition suggested already that PRRSV belongs to a group of so-called arteriviruses which comprises equine arteritis virus (EAV), lactate dehydrogenase elevating virus (LDV) and simian hemorrhagic fever virus (SHFV). This conclusion has now been confirmed by analysis of genome organization, gene expression strategy and by comparison of deduced protein sequences.


pmid: 23541923
title: Effect of infection with BHV-1 on peripheral blood leukocytes and lymphocyte subpopulations in calves with subclinical BVD
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1) are important cattle pathogens that induce a broad immunosuppression on cell-mediated immune response on its own participating in the bovine respiratory disease complex (BRDC). The aim of our study was to evaluate the quantitative changes in immunocompetent cells in healthy calves and calves with subclinical bovine viral diarrhea (BVD), both inoculated with BHV-1. Total leukocyte counts exhibited changes mainly in neutrophils and lymphocytes that can contribute to the BVDV immunosuppression, thus accounting for some of the intergroup differences. Monocytes did not display numerical changes in either group. Regarding lymphocyte subpopulations, even though CD4+ T lymphocytes and B cells were depleted around 4 dpi in both infected groups, the main difference observed between both groups was in CD8+ T cells which displayed an earlier depletion in BVDV inoculated calves that can promote a greater BHV-1 dissemination, thus aggravating the course of the disease.


pmid: 23111636
title: Seroprevalence of bovine viral diarrhea infection in Yaks (Bos grunniens) on the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau of China
abstract: The seroprevalence of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in yaks was investigated in Qinghai and Tibet of China during the year 2011. A total of 549 (Tibet 287, Qinghai 262) serum samples was collected from Tibet and Qinghai and were examined for BVDV p80 antibody by ELISA. The results of the experiment showed that 145 (53.65 %) of Tibetan samples and 189 (72.14 %) of Qinghai's samples were positive for BVDV. The observations of the present study suggest that bovine viral diarrhea is common in yaks in Tibet and Qinghai, China.


pmid: 22949547
title: Prevalence of antibodies to bovine viral diarrhoea virus in bulk tank milk and associated risk factors in Scottish dairy herds
abstract: Bulk tank milk samples were collected from 374 dairy farms in Scotland in 2007/2008 along with questionnaire data relating to the management of the farm. Milk samples were tested for antibodies to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) using a commercially available (Svanova) kit and percentage positivity scores calculated according to the manufacturer's guidelines. There were 220 farms that did not routinely vaccinate for bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD), and these were distributed according to the Swedish BVD eradication classes as 12.7 per cent, 22.3 per cent, 44.5 per cent and 20.5 per cent for Classes 0, 1, 2 and 3, respectively. A more sophisticated statistical method (finite mixture modelling) which does not depend on arbitrary thresholds and categories suggested a 73 per cent prevalence of herds with high mean levels of antibodies. Risk factor analysis suggested that routine vaccination for BVD, suspicion of BVD, housing of pregnant cows with calves, total number of cows and the proportion of cows that were dry were all associated with increased BVDV antibodies in bulk milk. The inclusion of BVD within the farm's health plan was associated with decreased BVDV antibodies in the bulk milk.


pmid: 19263380
title: Seroprevalence and characterization of pestivirus infections in small ruminants and new world camelids in Switzerland
abstract: The seroprevalence of pestivirus infections in small ruminants and new world camelids in Switzerland was determined. In 5'059 sera of sheep from 382 herds, 503 sera of goats from 54 herds and 109 sera of alpacas and lamas from 53 herds, population prevalences of 16.1% (sheep), 25.4% (goats) and 4.6% (new world camelids), respectively, were found. In order to determine the source of infection, the serological reactions were further characterized by cross-neutralization against two pestiviruses representing the genotypes BVDV (Bovine Virus Diarrhea Virus)-1 and BDV (Border Disease Virus)-1. Based on the ratio of respective antibody titres, 56.1% of the infections in sheep were induced by a BDV-1, 12.9% by a BVDV-1 and 31.0% by an unresolved pestivirus. In goats, the corresponding proportions were 23.4%, 10.2% and 66.4%, respectively. In Alpacas and Lamas, the source of infection of 1 animal was BDV-1 and that of 4 seropositive animals remained unresolved. In view of the phylogenetic relationship between pestiviruses, the unresolved source of infection is most probably attributable to other pestivirus genotypes circulating in small ruminants and new world camelids. Due to the predominance of pestiviral genotypes other than BVDV-1, the risk of transmission of BVDV from persistently infected small ruminants and new world camelids to cattle appears to be moderate, apart from close direct contact in mixed animal husbandry, communal pasturing and grazing in the Alps.


pmid: 12528828
title: Adherence of bovine viral diarrhea virus to bovine oocytes and embryos with a hardened zona pellucida cultured in vitro
abstract: The purpose of this study was to investigate the adherence of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) to bovine mature, or immature, cumulus-free oocytes and to in vitro fertilized embryos, maintained in vitro in a ligated bovine oviduct to allow for the hardening of the zona pellucida. Incubation of the oocytes and embryos in the oviduct for 5 h caused hardening of the zona pellucida as measured by resistance to pronase digestion (which increased from approximately 3 min to 7 h; P > 0.001). However, there was no difference between the number of infected oocytes and embryos (n = 965 in 193 samples) following experimental exposure to BVDV regardless of whether or not they were previously incubated in the oviduct (P > 0.05). It was concluded that the modification of the proteolytic resistance properties of the zona pellucida during in vitro oviductal incubation did not influence the adherence of BVDV to zona pellucida of oocytes or in vitro fertilized embryos.


pmid: 11457549
title: Cytokine adjuvancy of BVDV DNA vaccine enhances both humoral and cellular immune responses in mice
abstract: The effect of cytokine adjuvancy on a bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) DNA vaccine expressing the major glycoprotein E2 was investigated in mice. Murine interleukin-2 (IL-2) and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) were chosen for their potential ability to enhance the humoral and cellular immune responses involved in protection against BVDV. Both cytokines, co-administered as separate plasmid constructs, had a marked effect on ELISA and neutralising antibody titres, improving the spectrum of neutralisation induced by the E2 DNA vaccine, as demonstrated in heterologous neutralisation assays. The predominance of IgG2a isotypes, in sera from all DNA injected groups, indicated a Th1 biased immune response. Antigen specific proliferation of murine splenocytes from immunised mice was enhanced by cytokine co-administration, with the highest stimulation indexes observed in the group co-injected with the GM-CSF construct. These results obtained in the mouse (Balb/c; H2-kd) animal model demonstrate the value of the two cytokines as adjuvants for the E2 DNA vaccine. The need for an adjuvant in this system was emphasised by the MHC restriction observed when C57BL/6 mice (H2-kb) were immunised with the E2 DNA construct. Antibody levels were dramatically lower in this mouse strain.


pmid: 11000219
title: E2-p7 region of the bovine viral diarrhea virus polyprotein: processing and functional studies
abstract: The genes encoding pestivirus E2 and NS2-3 are separated by a sequence that encodes a small hydrophobic polypeptide with an apparent molecular mass of 6 to 7 kDa (p7). It has been shown that cleavage between E2 and p7 is incomplete, resulting in proteins E2-p7, E2, and p7. We found no precursor-product relationship between E2-p7 and E2, which indicates a stable nature of E2-p7. To study the function of the E2-p7 region of the polyprotein, mutations were introduced into an infectious cDNA of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). When cleavage between E2 and p7 was abolished, viral RNA replication occurred; however, no infectious virus could be recovered. A corresponding result was obtained with a construct encompassing a large in-frame deletion of p7. To prevent synthesis of E2-p7, a translational stop codon was introduced after the last codon of the E2 gene and an internal ribosome entry site element followed by a signal peptide coding sequence was inserted upstream of the p7 gene. Transfection of RNA transcribed from the bicistronic construct led to the release of infectious virus particles. Thus, synthesis of E2-p7 is not essential for the generation of infectious virions. Cell lines constitutively expressing BVDV p7 and/or E2 were generated for complementation studies. Transfection of BVDV RNAs with point mutations or a deletion in the E2-p7 region into the complementing cell lines led to the generation of infectious virions. According to our studies, p7 as well as E2 can be complemented in trans.


pmid: 10355762
title: Localization of pestiviral envelope proteins E(rns) and E2 at the cell surface and on isolated particles
abstract: The glycoproteins E(rns) of classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and E(rns) and E2 of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) are shown to be located at the surface of infected cells by the use of indirect immunofluorescence and by cytofluorometric analysis. The positive immunostaining of the cell surface was further analysed by immunogold electron microscopy and it could be shown that only extracellular virions were labelled. Gold granules were not seen at the cellular plasma membrane. In contrast to BVDV E2, the CSFV E2 of virions sticking to the plasma membrane was not accessible to the respective monoclonal antibodies. However, CSFV particles isolated from culture supernatant were able to bind both monoclonal anti-E(rns) and anti-E2 antibodies. For CSFV and BVDV, binding of anti-E(rns) antibodies to the virions was more pronounced than that of anti-E2. This finding was unexpected since E2 is considered to be the immunodominant glycoprotein.


pmid: 16005506
title: Evaluation of risks of viral transmission to recipients of bovine embryos arising from fertilisation with virus-infected semen
abstract: This scientific review was prompted by recent legislation to curtail the use of semen from potentially virus-infected bulls to produce embryos for import into the European Union. From studies in laboratory animals, humans and horses, it is apparent that viruses may sometimes attach to, or be integrated into, spermatozoa, although in domestic livestock, including cattle, this seems to be a rare phenomenon, and carriage of virus through the zona pellucida into the oocyte by fertilising sperm has never been described in these species. Four specific viruses; enzootic bovine leukosis (EBLV), bovine herpesvirus-1 (BoHV-1), bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and bluetongue virus (BTV), all of which tend to cause subclinical infections in cattle, but which can occur in bovine semen, are examined with regard to the risks that use of infected semen might lead to production of infected embryos. With regard to in vivo-derived embryos, when internationally approved embryo processing protocols are used, the risks from EBLV- and BTV-infected semen are negligible, and the same is almost certainly true for semen infected with BoHV-1 if the embryos are also treated with trypsin. For BVDV, there is insufficient data on how the virus is carried in semen and how different BVDV strains can interact with sperm, oocytes and embryos. There is a potential, at least, that in vivo-derived embryos resulting from infected semen might carry BVDV, although field studies so far suggest that this is very unlikely. With regard to in vitro-produced embryos, use of semen infected with any of the four viruses, with the probable exception of EBLV, will often lead to contaminated embryos, and virus removal from these embryos is difficult even when the internationally approved embryo processing protocols are used. However, it has never been demonstrated that such embryos have resulted in transmission of infection to recipients or offspring.


pmid: 14506587
title: Safety of a modified-live combination vaccine against respiratory and reproductive diseases in pregnant cows
abstract: A combination vaccine (Bovi-Shield FP4 + L5, Pfizer Animal Health) containing modified-live virus (MLV) components against bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), bovine viral diarrhea virus BVDV), parainfluenza virus-3 (PI3), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), and inactivated cultures of Leptospira canicola, grippotyphosa, hardjo, icterohaemorrhagiae, and pomona was evaluated for safety in pregnant beef and dairy animals. Heifers vaccinated prebreeding with the minimum immunizing dose (lowest antigen level initiating immunizing effects) of the vaccine's MLV BHV-1 or BVDV components and during pregnancy (approximately 200 days of gestation) with vaccine containing 10x doses of the same BHV-1 and BVDV components delivered live, healthy calves that were determined to be serologically negative (titer less than 1:2) for neutralizing antibodies to BHV-1 and BVDV prior to nursing. Additionally, in three field safety studies, previously vaccinated cows and heifers that received a field dose (vaccine containing antigen levels required for commercial sale of the MLV combination vaccine during either the first, second, or third trimester of pregnancy had abortion rates similar to those of pregnant cows and heifers vaccinated during the same stage of pregnancy with sterile water diluent.


pmid: 24415196
title: Lack of evidence for the presence of emerging HoBi-like viruses in North American fetal bovine serum lots
abstract: The detection of an emerging pestivirus species, "HoBi-like virus," in fetal bovine serum (FBS) labeled as U.S. origin, but packaged in Europe, raised concerns that HoBi-like virus may have entered the United States. In the current study, 90 lots of FBS originating in North America (NA) were screened for pestivirus antigen and antibodies. Lots in group 1 (G1, 72 samples) and group 2 (G2, 9 samples) originated in NA and were packaged in the United States. Group 3 (G3) was composed of 9 lots collected in NA and processed in Europe. Lots in G1 were claimed negative for Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), while lots in G2 and G3 were claimed positive by the commercial processor. All lots in G1 and G2 tested negative by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using HoBi-like-specific primers. Two G1 lots tested positive by BVDV RT-PCR. One of these was also positive by virus isolation. All G2 lots were positive by BVDV RT-PCR. In addition, four G2 lots were VI positive while 1 lot was antigen-capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) positive. Two G3 lots were positive by HoBi-like-specific RT-PCR tests. All lots were negative for HoBi_D32/00 neutralizing antibodies. Seven lots (4 G1; 1 G2; 2 G3) had antibodies against BVDV by virus neutralization and/or antigen-capture ELISA. While there is no evidence of HoBi-like viruses in NA based on tested samples, further studies are required to validate HoBi-like virus-free status and develop means to prevent the spread of HoBi-like virus into NA.


pmid: 23220999
title: Two doses of bovine viral diarrhea virus DNA vaccine delivered by electroporation induce long-term protective immune responses
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a pathogen of major importance in cattle, so there is a need for new effective vaccines. DNA vaccines induce balanced immune responses and are relatively inexpensive and thus promising for both human and veterinary applications. In this study, newborn calves with maternal antibodies were vaccinated intramuscularly (i.m.) with a BVDV E2 DNA vaccine with the TriGrid Delivery System for i.m. delivery (TDS-IM). Two doses of this vaccine spaced 6 or 12 weeks apart were sufficient to induce significant virus-neutralizing antibody titers, numbers of activated T cells, and reduction in viral shedding and clinical presentations after BVDV-2 challenge. In contrast to the placebo-treated animals, the vaccinated calves did not lose any weight, which is an excellent indicator of the well-being of an animal and has a significant economic impact. Furthermore, the interval between the two vaccinations did not influence the magnitude of the immune responses or degree of clinical protection, and a third immunization was not necessary or beneficial. Since electroporation may enhance not only the magnitude but also the duration of immunity after DNA immunization, the interval between vaccination and challenge was extended in a second trial, which showed that two doses of this E2 DNA vaccine again significantly reduced clinical disease against BVDV for several months. These results are promising and support this technology for use against infectious diseases in cattle and large species, including humans, in general.


pmid: 10644352
title: The RNA helicase and nucleotide triphosphatase activities of the bovine viral diarrhea virus NS3 protein are essential for viral replication
abstract: Helicase/nucleoside triphosphatase (NTPase) motifs have been identified in many RNA virus genomes. Similarly, all the members of the Flaviviridae family contain conserved helicase/NTPase motifs in their homologous NS3 proteins. Although this suggests that this activity plays a critical role in the viral life cycle, the precise role of the helicase/NTPase in virus replication or whether it is essential for virus replication is still unknown. To determine the role of the NS3 helicase/NTPase in the viral life cycle, deletion and point mutations in the helicase/NTPase motifs of the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) (NADL strain) NS3 protein designed to abolish either helicase activity alone (motif II, DEYH to DEYA) or both NTPase and helicase activity (motif I, GKT to GAT and deletion of motif VI) were generated. The C-terminal domain of NS3 (BVDV amino acids 1854 to 2362) of these mutants and wild type was expressed in bacteria, purified, and assayed for RNA helicase and ATPase activity. These mutations behaved as predicted with respect to RNA helicase and NTPase activities in vitro. When engineered back into an infectious cDNA for BVDV (NADL strain), point mutations in either the GKT or DEYH motif or deletion of motif VI yielded RNA transcripts that no longer produced infectious virus upon transfection of EBTr cells. Further analysis indicated that these mutants did not synthesize minus-strand RNA. These findings represent the first report unequivocably demonstrating that helicase activity is essential for minus-strand synthesis.


pmid: 10869440
title: Mechanism of action of a pestivirus antiviral compound
abstract: We report here the discovery of a small molecule inhibitor of pestivirus replication. The compound, designated VP32947, inhibits the replication of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in cell culture at a 50% inhibitory concentration of approximately 20 nM. VP32947 inhibits both cytopathic and noncytopathic pestiviruses, including isolates of BVDV-1, BVDV-2, border disease virus, and classical swine fever virus. However, the compound shows no activity against viruses from unrelated virus groups. Time of drug addition studies indicated that VP32947 acts after virus adsorption and penetration and before virus assembly and release. Analysis of viral macromolecular synthesis showed VP32947 had no effect on viral protein synthesis or polyprotein processing but did inhibit viral RNA synthesis. To identify the molecular target of VP32947, we isolated drug-resistant (DR) variants of BVDV-1 in cell culture. Sequence analysis of the complete genomic RNA of two DR variants revealed a single common amino acid change located within the coding region of the NS5B protein, the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. When this single amino acid change was introduced into an infectious clone of drug-sensitive wild-type (WT) BVDV-1, replication of the resulting virus was resistant to VP32947. The RNA-dependent RNA polymerase activity of the NS5B proteins derived from WT and DR viruses expressed and purified from recombinant baculovirus-infected insect cells confirmed the drug sensitivity of the WT enzyme and the drug resistance of the DR enzyme. This work formally validates NS5B as a target for antiviral drug discovery and development. The utility of VP32947 and similar compounds for the control of pestivirus diseases, and for hepatitis C virus drug discovery efforts, is discussed.


pmid: 26043978
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus type 2 in vivo infection modulates TLR4 responsiveness in differentiated myeloid cells which is associated with decreased MyD88 expression
abstract: Symptoms of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection range from subclinical to severe, depending on strain virulence. Several in vitro studies showed BVDV infection impaired leukocyte function. Fewer studies have examined the effects of in vivo BVDV infection on monocyte/macrophage function, especially with strains of differing virulence. We characterized cytokine production by bovine myeloid cells isolated early or late in high (HV) or low virulence (LV) BVDV2 infection. Given BVDV infection may enhance susceptibility to secondary bacterial infection, LPS responses were examined as well. Monocytes from HV and LV infected calves produced higher levels of cytokines compared to cells from controls. In contrast, monocyte-derived macrophage cytokine levels were generally reduced. Modulated cytokine expression in HV BVDV2 macrophages was associated with decreased MyD88 expression, likely due to its interaction with viral NS5A. These data and those of others, suggest that certain Flaviviridae may have evolved strategies for subverting receptor signaling pathways involving MyD88.


pmid: 16543046
title: Evaluation of multiple immune parameters after vaccination with modified live or killed bovine viral diarrhea virus vaccines
abstract: The development of immunity to vaccine antigen was examined using three prime/boost strategies and the progression of immune activities was evaluated over the course of 8 weeks. Calves were vaccinated and multiple immune parameters were evaluated using several methods to assess humoral or cellular immunity from the same samples in parallel. The three vaccination protocols used were a killed vaccine followed by a killed boost (killed/killed), MLV vaccine and boost (MLV/MLV), or a MLV vaccine and killed boost (MLV/killed). All the vaccines used included modified live IBR/PI3 viruses to make the bystander context as similar as possible. The Singer strain of BVDV was used as the source antigen in the killed vaccine, and the NADL strain of BVDV was used in the MLV vaccine. Controls received a vaccine containing only MLV IBR/PI3. The assessment panel measured SN titers, as well as lymphocyte proliferation, cytokine mRNA expression, intracellular cytokine production, and released IFN-gamma after in vitro stimulation with three strains of BVDV virus. MLV/MLV and MLV/killed groups developed significant SN titers to the type 1 BVDV virus strains, Singer and NADL, and low crossover titers were also seen to the type 2 strain, 890 over the evaluation period. These two groups showed significant proliferation in response to the NADL virus as compared to controls. Multiple immune assessments were conducted simultaneously to attempt to provide a broader, more in depth evaluation of immune response to these BVDV vaccination protocols. We observed that the correlation among most of the assays conducted were weak; the correlation between SN titers and cellular proliferation assays demonstrated a moderate correlation.


pmid: 7856309
title: High level expression of the envelope glycoprotein (gp53) of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (Singer) and its potential use as diagnostic reagent
abstract: A 1.74-kb cDNA fragment containing the gp53 coding region has been cloned from bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) strain Singer by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Sequence analysis indicated that gp53 of BVDV strains Singer, NADL and SD-1 shared extensive sequence homology at both the RNA (85-94%) and protein (82-91%) levels. Nineteen cysteine residues and five potential N-linked glycosylation sites were identified within the sequenced region, all of which were conserved. These observations suggest that although the homology at the nucleotide sequence level may vary, there was strong structural conservation among bovine viral diarrhoea virus envelope proteins. Full-length gp53 was expressed in Escherichia coli as a fusion protein with glutathione-S-transferase (GST). The N-terminal half of gp53 was also synthesised in E. coli as a 28-KDa recombinant protein using the T7 RNA polymerase-directed expression system. Both recombinant proteins were expressed at high levels (approximately 30-50 mg/l). The recombinant proteins were recognised in ELISA and Western blot analyses by polyclonal serum raised against a mixture of BVDV and classical swine fever virus (CSFV). Rabbit antiserum raised against the 28-kDa recombinant protein reacted with different BVDV strains in ELISA and immunofluorescent antibody test, but not with CSFV in the same tests. These results demonstrated that the bacterial recombinant proteins have similar immunological properties to that of the native viral protein and, in conjunction with its homologous antisera, can be useful as diagnostic reagents.


pmid: 24415196
title: Lack of evidence for the presence of emerging HoBi-like viruses in North American fetal bovine serum lots
abstract: The detection of an emerging pestivirus species, "HoBi-like virus," in fetal bovine serum (FBS) labeled as U.S. origin, but packaged in Europe, raised concerns that HoBi-like virus may have entered the United States. In the current study, 90 lots of FBS originating in North America (NA) were screened for pestivirus antigen and antibodies. Lots in group 1 (G1, 72 samples) and group 2 (G2, 9 samples) originated in NA and were packaged in the United States. Group 3 (G3) was composed of 9 lots collected in NA and processed in Europe. Lots in G1 were claimed negative for Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), while lots in G2 and G3 were claimed positive by the commercial processor. All lots in G1 and G2 tested negative by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using HoBi-like-specific primers. Two G1 lots tested positive by BVDV RT-PCR. One of these was also positive by virus isolation. All G2 lots were positive by BVDV RT-PCR. In addition, four G2 lots were VI positive while 1 lot was antigen-capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) positive. Two G3 lots were positive by HoBi-like-specific RT-PCR tests. All lots were negative for HoBi_D32/00 neutralizing antibodies. Seven lots (4 G1; 1 G2; 2 G3) had antibodies against BVDV by virus neutralization and/or antigen-capture ELISA. While there is no evidence of HoBi-like viruses in NA based on tested samples, further studies are required to validate HoBi-like virus-free status and develop means to prevent the spread of HoBi-like virus into NA.


pmid: 10644352
title: The RNA helicase and nucleotide triphosphatase activities of the bovine viral diarrhea virus NS3 protein are essential for viral replication
abstract: Helicase/nucleoside triphosphatase (NTPase) motifs have been identified in many RNA virus genomes. Similarly, all the members of the Flaviviridae family contain conserved helicase/NTPase motifs in their homologous NS3 proteins. Although this suggests that this activity plays a critical role in the viral life cycle, the precise role of the helicase/NTPase in virus replication or whether it is essential for virus replication is still unknown. To determine the role of the NS3 helicase/NTPase in the viral life cycle, deletion and point mutations in the helicase/NTPase motifs of the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) (NADL strain) NS3 protein designed to abolish either helicase activity alone (motif II, DEYH to DEYA) or both NTPase and helicase activity (motif I, GKT to GAT and deletion of motif VI) were generated. The C-terminal domain of NS3 (BVDV amino acids 1854 to 2362) of these mutants and wild type was expressed in bacteria, purified, and assayed for RNA helicase and ATPase activity. These mutations behaved as predicted with respect to RNA helicase and NTPase activities in vitro. When engineered back into an infectious cDNA for BVDV (NADL strain), point mutations in either the GKT or DEYH motif or deletion of motif VI yielded RNA transcripts that no longer produced infectious virus upon transfection of EBTr cells. Further analysis indicated that these mutants did not synthesize minus-strand RNA. These findings represent the first report unequivocably demonstrating that helicase activity is essential for minus-strand synthesis.


pmid: 23220999
title: Two doses of bovine viral diarrhea virus DNA vaccine delivered by electroporation induce long-term protective immune responses
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a pathogen of major importance in cattle, so there is a need for new effective vaccines. DNA vaccines induce balanced immune responses and are relatively inexpensive and thus promising for both human and veterinary applications. In this study, newborn calves with maternal antibodies were vaccinated intramuscularly (i.m.) with a BVDV E2 DNA vaccine with the TriGrid Delivery System for i.m. delivery (TDS-IM). Two doses of this vaccine spaced 6 or 12 weeks apart were sufficient to induce significant virus-neutralizing antibody titers, numbers of activated T cells, and reduction in viral shedding and clinical presentations after BVDV-2 challenge. In contrast to the placebo-treated animals, the vaccinated calves did not lose any weight, which is an excellent indicator of the well-being of an animal and has a significant economic impact. Furthermore, the interval between the two vaccinations did not influence the magnitude of the immune responses or degree of clinical protection, and a third immunization was not necessary or beneficial. Since electroporation may enhance not only the magnitude but also the duration of immunity after DNA immunization, the interval between vaccination and challenge was extended in a second trial, which showed that two doses of this E2 DNA vaccine again significantly reduced clinical disease against BVDV for several months. These results are promising and support this technology for use against infectious diseases in cattle and large species, including humans, in general.


pmid: 16005506
title: Evaluation of risks of viral transmission to recipients of bovine embryos arising from fertilisation with virus-infected semen
abstract: This scientific review was prompted by recent legislation to curtail the use of semen from potentially virus-infected bulls to produce embryos for import into the European Union. From studies in laboratory animals, humans and horses, it is apparent that viruses may sometimes attach to, or be integrated into, spermatozoa, although in domestic livestock, including cattle, this seems to be a rare phenomenon, and carriage of virus through the zona pellucida into the oocyte by fertilising sperm has never been described in these species. Four specific viruses; enzootic bovine leukosis (EBLV), bovine herpesvirus-1 (BoHV-1), bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and bluetongue virus (BTV), all of which tend to cause subclinical infections in cattle, but which can occur in bovine semen, are examined with regard to the risks that use of infected semen might lead to production of infected embryos. With regard to in vivo-derived embryos, when internationally approved embryo processing protocols are used, the risks from EBLV- and BTV-infected semen are negligible, and the same is almost certainly true for semen infected with BoHV-1 if the embryos are also treated with trypsin. For BVDV, there is insufficient data on how the virus is carried in semen and how different BVDV strains can interact with sperm, oocytes and embryos. There is a potential, at least, that in vivo-derived embryos resulting from infected semen might carry BVDV, although field studies so far suggest that this is very unlikely. With regard to in vitro-produced embryos, use of semen infected with any of the four viruses, with the probable exception of EBLV, will often lead to contaminated embryos, and virus removal from these embryos is difficult even when the internationally approved embryo processing protocols are used. However, it has never been demonstrated that such embryos have resulted in transmission of infection to recipients or offspring.


pmid: 14506587
title: Safety of a modified-live combination vaccine against respiratory and reproductive diseases in pregnant cows
abstract: A combination vaccine (Bovi-Shield FP4 + L5, Pfizer Animal Health) containing modified-live virus (MLV) components against bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), bovine viral diarrhea virus BVDV), parainfluenza virus-3 (PI3), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), and inactivated cultures of Leptospira canicola, grippotyphosa, hardjo, icterohaemorrhagiae, and pomona was evaluated for safety in pregnant beef and dairy animals. Heifers vaccinated prebreeding with the minimum immunizing dose (lowest antigen level initiating immunizing effects) of the vaccine's MLV BHV-1 or BVDV components and during pregnancy (approximately 200 days of gestation) with vaccine containing 10x doses of the same BHV-1 and BVDV components delivered live, healthy calves that were determined to be serologically negative (titer less than 1:2) for neutralizing antibodies to BHV-1 and BVDV prior to nursing. Additionally, in three field safety studies, previously vaccinated cows and heifers that received a field dose (vaccine containing antigen levels required for commercial sale of the MLV combination vaccine during either the first, second, or third trimester of pregnancy had abortion rates similar to those of pregnant cows and heifers vaccinated during the same stage of pregnancy with sterile water diluent.


pmid: 10869440
title: Mechanism of action of a pestivirus antiviral compound
abstract: We report here the discovery of a small molecule inhibitor of pestivirus replication. The compound, designated VP32947, inhibits the replication of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in cell culture at a 50% inhibitory concentration of approximately 20 nM. VP32947 inhibits both cytopathic and noncytopathic pestiviruses, including isolates of BVDV-1, BVDV-2, border disease virus, and classical swine fever virus. However, the compound shows no activity against viruses from unrelated virus groups. Time of drug addition studies indicated that VP32947 acts after virus adsorption and penetration and before virus assembly and release. Analysis of viral macromolecular synthesis showed VP32947 had no effect on viral protein synthesis or polyprotein processing but did inhibit viral RNA synthesis. To identify the molecular target of VP32947, we isolated drug-resistant (DR) variants of BVDV-1 in cell culture. Sequence analysis of the complete genomic RNA of two DR variants revealed a single common amino acid change located within the coding region of the NS5B protein, the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. When this single amino acid change was introduced into an infectious clone of drug-sensitive wild-type (WT) BVDV-1, replication of the resulting virus was resistant to VP32947. The RNA-dependent RNA polymerase activity of the NS5B proteins derived from WT and DR viruses expressed and purified from recombinant baculovirus-infected insect cells confirmed the drug sensitivity of the WT enzyme and the drug resistance of the DR enzyme. This work formally validates NS5B as a target for antiviral drug discovery and development. The utility of VP32947 and similar compounds for the control of pestivirus diseases, and for hepatitis C virus drug discovery efforts, is discussed.


pmid: 26043978
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus type 2 in vivo infection modulates TLR4 responsiveness in differentiated myeloid cells which is associated with decreased MyD88 expression
abstract: Symptoms of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection range from subclinical to severe, depending on strain virulence. Several in vitro studies showed BVDV infection impaired leukocyte function. Fewer studies have examined the effects of in vivo BVDV infection on monocyte/macrophage function, especially with strains of differing virulence. We characterized cytokine production by bovine myeloid cells isolated early or late in high (HV) or low virulence (LV) BVDV2 infection. Given BVDV infection may enhance susceptibility to secondary bacterial infection, LPS responses were examined as well. Monocytes from HV and LV infected calves produced higher levels of cytokines compared to cells from controls. In contrast, monocyte-derived macrophage cytokine levels were generally reduced. Modulated cytokine expression in HV BVDV2 macrophages was associated with decreased MyD88 expression, likely due to its interaction with viral NS5A. These data and those of others, suggest that certain Flaviviridae may have evolved strategies for subverting receptor signaling pathways involving MyD88.


pmid: 23458997
title: Expression of type I interferon-induced antiviral state and pro-apoptosis markers during experimental infection with low or high virulence bovine viral diarrhea virus in beef calves
abstract: The objective of this study was to compare the mRNA expression of host genes involved in type-I interferon-induced antiviral state (IFN-α, IFN-β, Mx-1, PKR, OAS-1 and ISG-15), and apoptosis (caspase-3, -8, and -9), after experimental infection of beef calves with low or high virulence noncytopathic (ncp) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strains. Thirty BVDV-naïve, clinically normal calves were randomly assigned to three groups. Calves were intranasally inoculated with low (LV; n=10, strain SD-1) or high (HV; n=10, strain 1373) virulence ncp BVDV or BVDV-free cell culture medium (Control, n=10). Quantitative RT-PCR was used to determine the target gene expression in tracheo-bronchial lymph nodes and spleen 5 days after infection. Interferon-α and -β mRNA levels were up-regulated in tracheo-bronchial lymph nodes (P<0.05) in the HV group, but not in the LV group, compared with the control group. There was an up-regulation of type I interferon-induced genes in spleen and tracheo-bronchial lymph nodes of HV and LV groups, compared with the control group (P<0.01). mRNA levels of OAS-1 and ISG-15 were significantly higher in LV than HV calves (P<0.05). A significant up-regulation of caspase-8 and -9 was observed in tracheo-bronchial lymph nodes in the LV group (P=0.01), but not in the HV group. In conclusion, experimental infection with either high or low virulence BVDV strains induced a significant expression of the type I interferon-induced genes in beef calves. There was a differential expression of some interferon-induced genes (OAS-1 and ISG-15) and pro-apoptosis markers based on BVDV virulence and genotype.


pmid: 19564494
title: Lung pathology and infectious agents in fatal feedlot pneumonias and relationship with mortality, disease onset, and treatments
abstract: This study charted 237 fatal cases of bovine respiratory disease (BRD) observed from May 2002 to May 2003 in a single Oklahoma feed yard. Postmortem lung samples were used for agent identification and histopathology. Late in the study, 94 skin samples (ear notches) were tested for Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) by immunohistochemistry (IHC). Bovine respiratory disease morbidity was 14.7%, and the mortality rate of all causes was 1.3%, with more than half (53.8%) attributed to BRD (0.7% total of all causes). The agents isolated were the following: Mannheimia haemolytica (25.0%), Pasteurella multocida (24.5%), Histophilus somni (10.0%), Arcanobacterium pyogenes (35.0%), Salmonella spp. (0.5%), and Mycoplasma spp. (71.4%). Viruses recovered by cell culture were BVDV-1a noncytopathic (NCP; 2.7%), BVDV-1a cytopathic (CP) vaccine strain (1.8%), BVDV-1b NCP (2.7%), BVDV-2a NCP (3.2%), BVDV-2b CP (0.5%), and Bovine herpesvirus 1 (2.3%). Gel-based polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays were 4.6% positive for Bovine respiratory syncytial virus and 10.8% positive for Bovine coronavirus. Bovine viral diarrhea virus IHC testing was positive in 5.3% of the animals. The mean values were determined for the treatment data: fatal disease onset (32.65 days), treatment interval (29.15 days), number of antibiotic treatments (2.65), number of different antibiotics (1.89), and day of death (61.81 days). Lesions included the following: 1) duration: acute (21%), subacute (15%), chronic (40.2%), healing (2.8%), normal (18.1%), and autolyzed (2.8%); 2) type of pneumonia: lobar bronchopneumonia (LBP; 27.1%), LBP with pleuritis (49.1%), interstitial pneumonia (5.1%), bronchointerstitial pneumonia (1.4%), septic (0.9%), embolic foci (0.5%), other (2.8%), normal (10.3%), and autolyzed (2.8%); and 3) bronchiolar lesions: bronchiolitis obliterans (39.7%), bronchiolar necrosis (26.6%), bronchiolitis obliterans/bronchiolar necrosis (1.4%), other bronchiolar lesions (6.5%), and bronchiolar lesion negative (25.7%). Statistically significant relationships were present among the agents, lesions, and the animal treatment, disease onset, and mortality data. Clinical illnesses observed in this study were lengthier than those reported 16-20 years ago, based on fatal disease onset, treatment interval, and day of death.


pmid: 1317246
title: A short incubation serum neutralization test for bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: A three day serum neutralization (SN) test for the detection of antibodies to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), which is an improvement on the existing five day test, is described. The improved test results in a more rapid viral cytopathic effect and utilizes Madin Darby kidney (MDBK) cells, and horse serum as a medium supplement. A comparison of tests utilizing the NADL and the Singer strains of BVDV and the use of either secondary bovine kidney cells with calf serum (BKCS) or continuous MDBK cells with horse serum (MDHS) was performed. Analysis of the SN results of 685 serum samples from 445 Quebec and Ontario cattle showed that there was no difference, as expected, in the means of the SN antibody titers when the NADL strain was used in either the BKCS or MDHS system but SN antibody titers were elevated (p less than 0.01) when the Singer strain was used in the MDHS system. The SN test with the Singer strain also yielded significantly higher titers for sera from 200 Alberta cattle.


pmid: 26067971
title: Complete Genome Sequence of a Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Subgenotype 1e Strain Isolated in Switzerland
abstract: We sequenced the complete genome of the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strain Carlito. It belongs to the subgenotype 1e that is described in Europe only and represents the second most prevalent subgenotype in Switzerland. This is the first report of a full-length sequence of BVDV-1e.


pmid: 23778636
title: Evidence of bovine viral diarrhea, but absence of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis and bovine brucellosis in the endangered huemul deer (Hippocamelus bisulcus) in Chilean Patagonia
abstract: We screened 18 endangered Chilean huemul (Hippocamelus bisulcus) for antibodies to infectious agents. We detected no antibody to bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1) or Brucella abortus (BA); two huemul had antibody to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Cattle (n=35) had antibody to BVDV and BHV-1 but not BA.


pmid: 10735047
title: Quality controls for bovine viral diarrhea virus-free IVF embryos
abstract: Introduction of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) with cumulus-oocyte-complexes (COCs) from the abattoir is a concern in the production of bovine embryos in vitro. Further, International Embryo Transfer Society (IETS) guidelines for washing and trypsin treatment of in-vivo-derived bovine embryos ensure freedom from a variety of pathogens, but these procedures appear to be less effective when applied to IVF embryos. In this study, COCs were exposed to virus prior to IVM, IVF and IVC. Then, virus isolations from cumulus cells and washed or trypsin-treated nonfertile and degenerated ova were evaluated as quality controls for IVF embryo production. The effect of BVDV on rates of cleavage and development was also examined. All media were analyzed prior to the study for anti-BVDV antibody. Two approximately equal groups of COCs from abattoir-origin ovaries were washed and incubated for 1 h in minimum essential medium (MEM) with 10% equine serum. One group was incubated in 10(7) cell culture infective doses (50% endpoint) of BVDV for 1 h, while the other was incubated without virus. Subsequently, the groups were processed separately with cumulus cells, which were present throughout IVM, IVF and IVC. Cleavage was evaluated at 4 d and development to morulae and blastocysts at 7 d of IVC. After IVC, groups of nonfertile and degenerated ova or morulae and blastocysts were washed or trypsin-treated, sonicated and assayed for virus. Cumulus cells collected at 4 and 7 d were also assayed for virus. Anti-BVDV antibody was found in serum used in IVM and IVC but not in other media. A total of 1,656 unexposed COCs was used to produce 1,284 cleaved embryos (78%), 960 embryos > or = 5 cells (58%), and 194 morulae and blastocysts (12%). A total of 1,820 virus-exposed COCs was used to produce 1,350 cleaved embryos (74%), 987 embryos > or = 5 cells (54%), and 161 morulae and blastocysts (9%). Rates of cleavage (P = 0.021), cleavage to > or = 5 cells (P = 0.026) and development to morula and blastocyst (P = 0.005) were lower in the virus-exposed group (Chi-square test for heterogeneity). No virus was isolated from any samples from the unexposed group. For the exposed group, virus was always isolated from 4- and 7-d cumulus cells, from all washed nonfertile and degenerated ova (n = 40) and morulae and blastocysts (n = 57) and from all trypsin-treated nonfertile and degenerated ova (n = 80) and morulae and blastocysts (n = 91). Thus, virus persisted in the system despite the presence of neutralizing antibody in IVM and IVC media, and both washing and trypsin treatment were ineffective for removal of the virus. Presence of virus in 4- and 7-d cumulus cells as well as in nonfertile and degenerated ova were good indicators of virus being associated with morulae and blastocysts.


pmid: 28040270
title: A systematic review of financial and economic assessments of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) prevention and mitigation activities worldwide
abstract: Infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) results in major economic losses either directly through decreased productive performance in cattle herds or indirectly, such as through expenses for control programs. The aim of this systematic review was to review financial and/or economic assessment studies of prevention and/or mitigation activities of BVDV at national, regional and farm level worldwide. Once all predefined criteria had been met, 35 articles were included for this systematic review. Studies were analyzed with particular focus on the type of financially and/or economically-assessed prevention and/or mitigation activities. Due to the wide range of possible prevention and/or mitigation activities, these activities were grouped into five categories: i) control and/or eradication programs, ii) monitoring or surveillance, iii) prevention, iv) vaccination and v) individual culling, control and testing strategies. Additionally, the studies were analyzed according to economically-related variables such as efficiency, costs or benefits of prevention and/or mitigation activities, the applied financial and/or economic and statistical methods, the payers of prevention and/or mitigation activities, the assessed production systems, and the countries for which such evaluations are available. Financial and/or economic assessments performed in Europe were dominated by those from the United Kingdom, which assessed mostly vaccination strategies, and Norway which primarily carried out assessments in the area of control and eradication programs; whereas among non-European countries the United States carried out the majority of financial and/or economic assessments in the area of individual culling, control and testing. More than half of all studies provided an efficiency calculation of prevention and/or mitigation activities and demonstrated whether the inherent costs of implemented activities were or were not justified. The dairy sector was three times more likely to be assessed by the countries than beef production systems. In addition, the dairy sector was approximately eight times more likely to be assessed economically with respect to prevention and/or mitigation activities than calf and youngstock production systems. Furthermore, the private sector was identified as the primary payer of prevention and/or mitigation activities. This systematic review demonstrated a lack of studies relating to efficiency calculations, in particular at national and regional level, and the specific production systems. Thus, we confirmed the need for more well-designed studies in animal health economics in order to demonstrate that the implementation and inherent costs of BVDV prevention and/or mitigation activities are justified.


pmid: 34826733
title: Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus within and herd prevalence on pasture-based dairy systems, in southern Chile dairy farms
abstract: Bovine Viral Diarrhea (BVD) is a ubiquitous endemic disease in most bovine populations that causes a negative economic impact on cattle production systems. However, true herd and individual prevalence in Chile have not been estimated based on statistical and epidemiological considerations and uncertainty regarding the infection's extension at animal and herd levels. In addition, the risk factors that can influence how the infection has spread among the cattle premises have not been assessed yet. Therefore, the study aimed to estimate true herd and animal prevalence of active BVDV infection in pasture-based dairy herds and to evaluate risk factors potentially associated with the status of herds and the within-herd prevalence, using a Bayesian approach. A cross-sectional study was performed over a random stratified (proportional to herd size) sample of one-hundred and fifty dairy herds selected in Chile's two leading dairy regions (Region de Los Ríos and Region de Los Lagos). We obtained 12.311 blood samples from lactating cows, but 4.998 randomly selected samples were processed due to budget constraints. For estimating BVDV Herd Prevalence (HP), a herd was considered infected if at least one positive animal to Ag-ELISA was found. In addition, a survey was completed on each farm, aiming to collect information to assess the influence of some variables over the state of the herds; both estimations were obtained using a Bayesian approach. True herd prevalence and true individual prevalence of BVDV active infection were estimated at 77 % and 3.5 % respectively, no significant differences were found between characteristics like herd size, location, vaccination, etc. Open herds and herds that mix herd categories are more likely to have higher BVDV prevalence.


pmid: 12832207
title: Genetic and antigenic characterization of novel pestivirus genotypes: implications for classification
abstract: Currently, the genus Pestivirus comprises the four approved species Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1), BVDV-2, Classical swine fever virus (CSFV), and Border disease virus (BDV) and one tentative fifth species represented by a single strain (H138) isolated from a giraffe in Kenya more than 30 years ago. To further address the issue of heterogeneity of pestiviruses we have determined the entire N(pro) and E2 coding sequences for several new pestivirus isolates. Interestingly, phylogenetic analysis revealed that one pestivirus isolated in the 1990s in Africa is closely related to strain H138. Moreover, several novel pestiviruses isolated from sheep group together with the previously described strain V60 (Reindeer-1) isolated from a reindeer, whereas one ovine pestivirus strain (Gifhorn) significantly differs from all previously described pestiviruses, including BDV. We propose to term these mainly sheep-derived pestiviruses BDV-2 (V60-like isolates) and BDV-3 (Gifhorn); consequently, the "classical" BDV isolates should be termed BDV-1. As an additional criterion for segregation of pestiviruses, the antigenic relatedness of pestivirus isolates covering all observed major genotypes was studied by cross-neutralization assays. Analysis of the antigenic similarities indicated the presence of seven major antigenic groups corresponding to BVDV-1, BVDV-2, CSFV, BDV-1, BDV-2, BDV-3, and "giraffe". Taking into account the host origin, the lack of differences concerning the course of disease, and the results of our genetic and antigenic analyses, we suggest that BDV-1, BDV-2, and BDV-3 should be considered as major genotypes within the species BDV.


pmid: 10773320
title: CD4(+) T-cell responses to bovine viral diarrhoea virus in cattle
abstract: Friesian calves were infected with one of three isolates of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and used to establish parameters for an in vitro model of BVDV-reactive T-cell responses in cattle. The study assessed virus clearance, seroconversion, maturation of lymphoproliferative responses (both during and following disease resolution) and the antigen-specificity of CD4(+) T cells from recovered animals. Seroconversion and virus-specific lymphoproliferation were not detected until viraemia had resolved. Interestingly, lymphoproliferation was detected earlier in the animals infected with cytopathic viruses than in those infected with noncytopathic virus despite broadly similar rates of virus clearance and seroconversion for both biotypes. CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells were induced to proliferate by virus-infected stimulator cells whereas only CD4(+) T cells responded to non-infectious antigens. Lymphoproliferation was strain cross-reactive and MHC-restricted. Induction of T-cell proliferation by recombinant proteins identified the major envelope proteins E(rns) and E2 and the nonstructural (NS) 2-3 protein as T-cell determinants. In addition, the capsid (C) and/or the amino-terminal proteinase, N(pro) were identified as T-cell determinants from the responses of short-term T-cell lines. Thus, in this model, the CD4(+) T-cell repertoire induce by acute BVDV infection includes at least the major envelope proteins, NS2-3, and capsid and/or N(pro).


pmid: 10333065
title: The effect of high concentrations of cryoprotectants on the passage of bovine viral diarrhea virus through the zona pellucida of in vitro fertilized embryos
abstract: The effect of high concentrations of cryoprotectants on the passage of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) through the zona pellucida (ZP) of intact bovine embryos during the pre-freezing step of cryopreservation was investigated in a series of experiments. In vitro fertilized (IVF) embryos at the blastocyst stage were exposed to 10(6) TCID50 BVDV (non-cytopathic NY-1 strain) in a 30% suspension of either ethylene glycol, glycerol, DMSO, or 2 M sucrose in physiological saline for 10 min at 20 degrees C. Subsequently, the embryos were washed free of residual unbound viral particles, and the ZP of some embryos were removed by micromanipulation. Groups of ZP-intact embryos, ZP-free embryonic cells and their respective ZP were then tested separately for the presence of virus. The infectious virus was detected in association with 81% (17/21) of samples containing non-micromanipulated ZP-intact embryos which were exposed to the virus and cryoprotectants and then washed 10 times and in 83% (43/53) of the samples containing only ZP from micromanipulated embryos (P > 0.05). The virus was not found in the samples containing the corresponding embryonic cells of embryos exposed previously to the virus and cryoprotectants. It was concluded that the transfer of embryos from the isotonic PBS solution into a highly hypertonic cryoprotectant solution did not cause the passage of BVDV through ZP and its entry to embryonic cells.


pmid: 2165846
title: A group level analysis of the associations between antibodies to seven putative pathogens and respiratory disease and weight gain in Ontario feedlot calves
abstract: The associations, at the group level, between serological titer to Pasteurella haemolytica surface antigens (Ph), Pasteurella haemolytica cytotoxin (Ph-cytox), infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBRV), bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV), parainfluenza-3 virus (PIV3), respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), Mycoplasma dispar (Md), M. bovis (Mb), and respiratory disease treatment rates, relapse rates, and 28 day weight gains were investigated in 14 groups of calves entering two feedlots during years 1983-1985, in Ontario. Based on least squares regression analyses, seroconversion rates to Mb and BVDV were predictive of increased respiratory disease rates, and seroconversion rates to Ph, Ph-cytox, Md and PIV3 were predictive of decreased weight gains. The R2 for predicting weight gains was much higher than for morbidity rates (0.75 vs 0.47 respectively). Titer data were not predictive of relapse rates. Group level analyses were performed because calves are managed as groups (e.g. pens) in commercial feedlots. Only BVDV seroconversion rates were related to increased risk of respiratory disease at both the individual and group levels of organization. Mycoplasma may be important factors in causing respiratory disease, and their relationship to potentiating the effects of other respiratory pathogens needs further investigation.


pmid: 29361748
title: Perspectives on Current Challenges and Opportunities for Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus Eradication in Australia and New Zealand
abstract: This review outlines the history of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and the current situation in Australia and New Zealand. BVDV has been reported as present in cattle from both countries for close to 60 years. It rates as the second most economically significant disease afflicting cattle, and is highly prevalent and spread throughout the beef and dairy industries. While other cattle diseases have been the subject of government control and eradication, infection with BVDV is presently not. Eradication has been undertaken in many other countries and been judged to be a good investment, resulting in positive economic returns. Presently, Australia and New Zealand have adopted a non-compulsory approach to control schemes, initiated and managed by farmers and veterinarians without the ultimate goal of eradication. Moving towards eradication is possible with the infrastructure both countries possess, but will require additional resources, coordination, and funding from stakeholders to move to full eradication.


pmid: 27342097
title: Prevalence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in cattle farms in Hungary
abstract: A study was performed to survey the virological prevalence of bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) virus (BVDV) in cattle herds in Hungary between 2008 and 2012. A total of 40,413 samples for BVDV detection and 24,547 samples for antibody testing were collected from 3,247 herds (570,524 animals), thus representing approximately 75% of the cattle population in Hungary. Retrospective Bayesian analysis demonstrated that (1) the herd-level true virus prevalence was 12.4%, (2) the mean individual (within-herd) true virus prevalence was 7.2% in the herds having at least one virus-positive animal and 0.89% for all investigated herds with a mean apparent prevalence of 1.15% for the same population. This is the first study about BVDV prevalence in Hungary.


pmid: 23063176
title: Association between herd exposure to BVDV-infection and bulk milk somatic cell count of Flemish dairy farms
abstract: The purpose of this study was to investigate the statistical association between herd bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) status based on bulk milk antibody detection and monthly bulk milk somatic cell count (BMSCC) as a reflection of the udder health. A distinction was made between vaccinating and non-vaccinating herds via a questionnaire concerning BVD-vaccination. No significant difference in BMSCC was found between vaccinating (228,300 cells/ml; SD 180,019) and non-vaccinating (237,070 cells/ml; SD 77,900) herds. Non-vaccinating herds (n=243) were selected, and the relationship between a single BVDV-antibody titre and the BMSCC of each herd over a 12-month observation period evaluated. For this purpose, the non-vaccinating herds were divided into five groups depending on bulk milk BVDV-antibody titres. Overall, no significant relationship between the antibody titre and the BMSCC was found. Still, when comparing the category with the lowest S/P ratio (essentially BVDV-naïve herds; BMSCC=211,390 cells/ml) with the combined four other categories (BMSCC=242,790 cells/ml), a significant difference in BMSSC was observed (P=0.01).


pmid: 16554720
title: Application of bovine viral diarrhoea virus as an internal control in nucleic acid amplification tests for hepatitis C virus RNA in plasma-derived products
abstract: Plasma-derived products are produced from plasma via fractionation and chromatography techniques, but can also be produced by other methods. In the performance of nucleic acid amplification tests (NAT) with plasma-derived products, it is necessary to include an internal control for the monitoring of all procedures. In order to avoid false negative results, we confirmed the usefulness of the bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) for use as an internal control in the detection of hepatitis C virus (HCV) RNA in plasma-derived products. These products, which were spiked with BVDV, were extracted and then NAT was performed. Specificity and sensitivity were determined via the adjustment of primer concentrations and annealing temperatures. BVDV detection allows for validation in the extraction, reverse transcription, and amplification techniques used for HCV detection in plasma-derived products.


pmid: 16475810
title: NMR structure and molecular dynamics of the in-plane membrane anchor of nonstructural protein 5A from bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Hepatitis C virus (HCV) nonstructural protein 5A (NS5A) is a monotopic membrane protein anchored to the membrane by an N-terminal in-plane amphipathic alpha-helix. This membrane anchor is essential for the assembly of a functional viral replication complex. Although amino acid sequences differ considerably, putative membrane anchors with amphipathic features were predicted in NS5A from related Flaviviridae family members, in particular bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), the prototype representative of the genus Pestivirus. We report here the NMR structure of the membrane anchor 1-28 of NS5A from BVDV in the presence of different membrane mimetic media. This anchor includes a long amphipathic alpha-helix of 21 residues interacting in-plane with the membrane interface and including a putative flexible region. Molecular dynamic simulation at a water-dodecane interface used to mimic the surface separating a lipid bilayer and an aqueous medium demonstrated the stability of the helix orientation and the location at the hydrophobic-hydrophilic interface. The flexible region of the helix appears to be required to allow the most favorable interaction of hydrophobic and hydrophilic side chain residues with their respective environment at the membrane interface. Despite the lack of amino acid sequence similarity, this amphipathic helix shares common structural features with that of the HCV counterpart, including a stable, hydrophobic N-terminal segment separated from the more hydrophilic C-terminal segment by a local, flexible region. These structural conservations point toward conserved roles of the N-terminal in-plane membrane anchors of NS5A in replication complex formation of HCV, BVDV, and other related viruses.


pmid: 17363271
title: Assessment of viral inactivation during pH 3.3 pepsin digestion and caprylic acid treatment of antivenoms
abstract: Antivenoms are manufactured by the fractionation of animal plasma which may possibly be contaminated by infectious agents pathogenic to humans. This study was carried out to determine whether pre-existing antivenom production steps, as carried out by EgyVac in Egypt, may reduce viral risks. Two typical manufacturing steps were studied by performing down-scaled viral inactivation experiments: (a) a pH 3.3 pepsin digestion of diluted plasma at 30 degrees C for 1h, and (b) a caprylic acid treatment of a purified F(ab')2 fragment fraction at 18 degrees C for 1h. Three lipid-enveloped (LE) viruses [bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), pseudorabies virus (PRV), and vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV)] and one non-lipid-enveloped (NLE) virus [encephalomyocarditis virus (EMC)] were used as models. Kinetics of inactivation was determined by taking samples at 3 time-points during the treatments. The pH 3.3 pepsin digestion resulted in complete clearance of PRV (>7.0 log(10)) and in almost complete reduction of VSV (>4.5 but < or =6.4 log(10)), and in a limited inactivation of BVDV (1.7 log(10)). EMC inactivation was > or =2.5 but < or =5.7 log(10). The caprylic acid treatment resulted in complete inactivation of the 3 LE viruses tested: BVDV (>6.6 log(10)), PRV (>6.6 log(10)), and VSV (>7.0 log(10)). For EMC no significant reduction was obtained (0.7 log(10)). Cumulative reduction was >13.6, >11.5, >8.3 and > or =2.5 for PRV, VSV, BVDV and EMC, respectively. Therefore the current manufacturing processes of at least some animal antisera already include production steps that can ensure robust viral inactivation of LE viruses and moderate inactivation of a NLE virus.


pmid: 16309752
title: Development of a real time RT-PCR to detect and type ovine pestiviruses
abstract: A real time one-step RT-PCR was designed to detect and type border disease virus (BDV), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type 1 and BVDV type 2 in ovine samples. The real time RT-PCR was shown to behave in a linear manner and had limits of detection of 100-1000 copies of viral RNA as judged by in vitro transcribed RNA. The real time RT-PCR was validated on 50 clinical samples from UK flocks and was more sensitive than a virus isolation and a classical nested RT-PCR (nRT-PCR). The results of real time RT-PCR virus typing agreed completely with sequencing. The majority of ovine isolates were BDV; a small proportion were BVDV type 1. BVDV type 2 was not detected in any sample. This test appears reliable and can be used for the typing of ovine pestiviruses in the UK.


pmid: 16216336
title: Evidence for dissociation of TLR mRNA expression and TLR agonist-mediated functions in bovine macrophages
abstract: Toll-like receptors are of key importance in the recognition of and response to infectious agents by cells of the innate immune system. TLR mRNA expression and TLR-mediated functions were determined in bovine macrophages (MPhi) infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) or stimulated with interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) in order to see whether they are correlated under these conditions. As parameters quantitative real time RT-PCR (QRT-PCR) for TLR2, TLR3 and TLR4, NO and TNF production were measured. Triggering of bovine MPhi with bona fide TLR2 and TLR4 agonists (lipopolysaccharide, lipoteichoic acid, peptidoglycan, lipopetide) led to NO and TNF production but neither TLR3 nor TLR9 agonists (double-stranded RNA, CpG DNA) showed this effect. The mRNA expression of TLR2, TLR3 and TLR4 was neither influenced by MPhi costimulation with IFN-gamma nor by MPhi preinfection with BVDV nor by the ligands themselves. However, NO production induced by TLR2 or TLR4 agonists was strongly modulated either by IFN-gamma costimulation or BVDV preinfection. Thus costimulation of MPhi with IFN-gamma resulted in an increase of both NO synthesis and TNF expression by cells stimulated simultaneously by TLR2 or TLR4 agonists. Preinfection of bovine MPhi by BVDV resulted in upregulation of TLR2- and TLR4-mediated NO synthesis. Collectively, these data show that TLR-mediated functions may be modulated by viral infection or activation via IFN-gamma of MPhi whereas the mRNA concentrations of relevant TLR members were not significantly influenced. Thus, the amount of TLR2, TLR3 and TLR4 mRNA transcripts is stable at least under the conditions tested. More importantly, modulation of TLR-mediated responses was dissociated from mRNA expression of TLR members.


pmid: 28735964
title: Bovine A20 gene overexpression during bovine viral diarrhea virus-1 infection blocks NF-κB pathway in MDBK cells
abstract: Viruses have developed cellular strategies to ensure progeny survival. One of the most interesting is immune camouflage, where the virus triggers a controlled-intensity immune response that prevents total destruction of the infected cell, thus "winning time" for the virus. This study explored the regulatory contexts of the bovine A20 gene during bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)-1 infection, using IL-8 as an immune-response sentinel molecule. Assessments were conducted through RT-qPCR, Western blotting, gene silencing/overexpression, luciferase assays, and the use of pharmacological inhibitors, among other approaches. The results demonstrated that a) BVDV-1 increased A20 levels in Madin-Darby bovine kidney cells, b) increased A20 led to decreased IL-8 expression, and c) the virus affected the NF-κB signaling pathway. Collectively, these data identify bovine A20 as a strong regulator of immune marker expression. In conclusion, this is the first report on BVDV-1 modulating bovine IL-8 activation through the NF-κB/A20 pathway.


pmid: 23838147
title: Preliminary mapping of non-conserved epitopes on envelope glycoprotein E2 of Bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 and 2
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) belongs together with Classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and Border disease virus (BDV) to the genus Pestivirus in the Flaviviridae family. BVDV has been subdivided into two different species, BVDV1 and BVDV2 based on phylogenetic analysis. Subsequent characterization of both strains revealed major antigenic differences. Because the envelope glycoprotein E2 is the most immunodominant protein for all pestiviruses, the present study focused on epitope mapping by constructing chimeric BVDV type 1 and 2 E2 genes in expression plasmids. These plasmids with chimeric E2-genes were transfected in SK6 cells and transient expression was studied by immunostaining with a panel of MAbs specific for E2 of BVDV1 or BVDV2, resulting in the localization of type-specific antigenic domains at similar regions. These results indicate that E2 glycoproteins of both BVDV types exhibit a comparable antigenic structure, but with type specific epitopes. In addition, the antigenic resemblance with envelope glycoprotein E2 of Classical swine fever virus is discussed.


pmid: 21277304
title: Development and evaluation of a Luminex multiplex serology assay to detect antibodies to bovine herpes virus 1, parainfluenza 3 virus, bovine viral diarrhoea virus, and bovine respiratory syncytial virus, with comparison to existing ELISA detection methods
abstract: Detection of circulating antibodies to bovine herpes virus 1 (BHV-1), parainfluenza 3 virus (PI3V), bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) using ELISA is widely used for veterinary diagnostics and surveillance. In this paper, the potential of a multiplex serology test based on Luminex technology, where all antibodies are simultaneously detected in a single assay was investigated. The performance of "in-house" separate ELISAs which use relatively crude lysates of cultured virus as capture antigens, was compared to the multiplex assay where the same antigens were covalently bound to the fluorescent beads used in the Luminex platform. A panel of field serum samples was tested by the multiplex assay in parallel with the separate routine ELISAs to provide a comparison between tests. The BHV-1 and PI3V components of the multiplex test showed similar sensitivities and specificities to the separate "in-house" ELISAs. The performance of the BVDV and BRSV components was less successful and was attributed to relatively low signal strength for these antigens, leading to higher assay variability and a reduced ability to distinguish positive and negative samples compared to the "in-house" ELISAs. The results illustrated that antigens commonly used successfully in ELISAs cannot always be transferred for use in alternative assay systems. The use of recombinant BVDV E2 protein was investigated and was shown to lead to an appreciable increase in signal strength compared to the use of crude BVDV antigen in the Luminex system.


pmid: 7728633
title: Impact of bovine viral diarrhea virus on reproductive performance in cattle
abstract: The major economic impact of BVDV infections is in producing reproductive dysfunctions. The virus can have a detrimental impact on the developing fetus at all stages, but the most severe consequences occur early in gestation. The virus is maintained in the bovine population through the production of PI offspring. Only the NCB biotype of the virus can produce PI calves. The NCB biotypes is the one that produces the vast majority of BVDV infections and, as a consequence, the greatest economic losses. Biotype and antigenic variation are two independent variables and vaccines should emphasise antigenic composition, not biotype. A BVDV control program that does not emphasize heifers is doomed to failure.


pmid: 2541531
title: Protection against respiratory infection with bovine virus diarrhoea virus by passively acquired antibody
abstract: Susceptibility to infection with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was compared for calves with varying amounts of specific antibody in their sera passively acquired from the ingestion of colostrum. Challenge consisted of intranasal exposure to a strain of BVDV isolated from an outbreak of respiratory disease. Resistance to infection, as judged by nasopharyngeal shedding of virus, was directly related to the titre of neutralizing antibodies in sera. Besides protecting against infection of the upper respiratory tract, passive antibody, which was mainly IgG1, also protected against viraemia and, to a lesser extent, leukopenia. In the presence of colostral antibody, neutralizing and IgG1 antibody responses were apparently inhibited, but a specific IgG2 response occurred.


pmid: 3906367
title: Effect of a single therapeutic dose of levamisole on bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in calves
abstract: The effect of a single therapeutic dose of levamisole in calves experimentally infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was evaluated in 2 separate double-blind experiments. The infection was mild and there was no difference in severity of infection or speed of recovery between levamisole-treated and 0.9% Nacl solution-treated (control) calves. There were no significant differences between drug-treated and control calves in respect to total white blood cell, lymphocyte, and neutrophil counts, and the viral recovery data from these calves were comparable. The differences in blastogenic response of lymphocytes to the mitogen phytohemagglutinin and serum antibody titers of the 2 groups of calves were also insignificant. An increased lymphocytic hyperplasia was observed in a larger number of lymphoid tissues of drug-treated calves than in those of control calves. It appeared that a single therapeutic dose of levamisole was ineffective in altering the response of calves infected with BVDV.


pmid: 15970402
title: Effects of seropositivity for bovine leukemia virus, bovine viral diarrhoea virus, Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis, and Neospora caninum on culling in dairy cattle in four Canadian provinces
abstract: The purpose of this research was to determine the effects of seropositivity for exposure to bovine leukemia virus (BLV), bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP) and Neospora caninum (NC) on overall and reason-specific culling in Canadian dairy cattle. Serum samples from, approximately, 30 randomly selected cows from 134 herds were tested for antibodies against BLV, MAP and NC using commercially available ELISA test kits, while 5 unvaccinated cattle over 6 months of age were tested for antibodies to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). For analyzing the time (in days) to culling of cows after the blood testing, a two-step approach was utilized, non-parametric (Kaplan-Meier survival graphs) visualization and then semi-parametric survival modelling (Cox proportional hazards model), while controlling for confounding variables and adjusting for within herd clustering. For all reasons of culling, MAP-seropositive cows had a 1.38 (1.05-1.81, 95% C.I.) times increased hazard of culling compared to MAP-seronegative cows. Seropositivity for the other pathogens was not associated with an increased risk of overall culling. Among cows that were culled because of either decreased reproductive efficiency or decreased milk production or mastitis, MAP-seropositive cows were associated with 1.55 (1.12-2.15, 95% C.I.) times increased hazard compared to MAP-seronegative cows. Among cows that were culled because of reproductive inefficiency, NC-seropositive cows had a 1.43 (1.15-1.79, 95% C.I.) times greater hazard than NC-seronegative cows. Among cows that were culled because of decreased milk production, cows in BVDV-seropositive herds had a 1.86 (1.28-2.70, 95% C.I.) times increased hazard compared to cows in BVDV-seronegative herds. BLV-seropositive cows did not have an increased risk of reason-specific culling as compared to BLV-seronegative cows. No significant interaction on culling among seropositivity for the pathogens was detected, but only a limited number of cows tested seropositive for multiple pathogens. Results from our research will help in better understanding the economic impacts of these pathogens and justification for their control.


pmid: 12718406
title: Inhibitors of the IMPDH enzyme as potential anti-bovine viral diarrhoea virus agents
abstract: Ribavirin and mycophenolic acid (MPA) are known inhibitors of the IMPDH enzyme (E.C. 1.1.1.205). This enzyme catalyzes the conversion of inosine monophosphate to xanthine monophosphate, leading eventually to a decrease in the intracellular level of GTP and dGTP. The antiviral effect against bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) of 15 analogues related to MPA was determined. MDBK cells were infected with the cytopathic strain of BVDV in presence or absence of test compounds. Viral RNA was extracted from the cell supernatant fluids and quantified by RT-PCR. Ribavirin showed a potent antiviral effect against BVDV with 90% effective concentration (EC90) of 4 microM. MPA along with several analogues, including both its corresponding aldehyde and alcohol, and modifications in the length of the side chain (C2- and C4-derivatives) were tested. We have identified previously unreported IMPDH inhibitors that have potent anti-BVDV activity, namely: C6-MPAlc (5), C6-MPA-Me (7), C4-MPAlc (8), C4-MPA (10) and C2-MAD (20). Most of these compounds inhibited the IMPDH enzyme in the nanomolar range (4-800 nM) in cell-free assays. Some compounds, such as mizoribine, which is a potent inhibitor of IMPDH in vitro (enzyme 50% inhibitory concentration IC50=4 nM), had no detectable anti-BVDV activity up to 100 microM. The compounds were essentially non-toxic to a confluent monolayer of MDBK cells. However, in exponentially growing cells, they showed minimal toxicity at 100 microM over a 24 h period, but the toxicity was more pronounced after 3 days [50% cytotoxic concentration (CC50) value ranged from 5 to 30 microM].


pmid: 32747110
title: Quantification of risk factors for bovine viral diarrhea virus in cattle herds: A systematic search and meta-analysis of observational studies
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is endemic in many parts of the world, and multiple countries have implemented surveillance activities for disease control or eradication. In such control programs, the disease-free status can be compromised by factors that pose risks for introduction or persistence of the virus. The aim of the present study was to gain a comprehensive overview of possible risk factors for BVDV infection in cattle herds in Europe and to assess their importance. Papers that considered risk factors for BVDV infection in cattle were identified through a systematic search. Further selection of papers eligible for quantitative analysis was performed using a predefined checklist, including (1) appropriate region (i.e., studies performed in Europe), (2) representativeness of the study population, (3) quality of statistical analysis, and (4) availability of sufficient quantitative data. In total, 18 observational studies were selected. Data were analyzed by a random-effects meta-analysis to obtain pooled estimates of the odds of BVDV infection. Meta-analyses were performed on 6 risk factors: herd type, herd size, participation in shows or markets, introduction of cattle, grazing, and contact with other cattle herds on pasture. Significant higher odds were found for dairy herds (odds ratio, OR = 1.63, 95% confidence interval, CI: 1.06-2.50) compared with beef herds, for larger herds (OR = 1.04 for every 10 extra animals in the herd, 95% CI: 1.02-1.06), for herds that participate in shows or markets (OR = 1.45, 95% CI: 1.10-1.91), for herds that introduced cattle into the herd (OR = 1.41, 95% CI: 1.18-1.69), and for herds that share pasture or have direct contact with cattle of other herds at pasture (OR = 1.32, 95% CI: 1.07-1.63). These pooled values must be interpreted with care, as there was a high level of heterogeneity between studies. However, they do give an indication of the importance of the most frequently studied risk factors and can therefore assist in the development, evaluation, and optimization of BVDV control programs.


pmid: 24398226
title: N pro of Bungowannah virus exhibits the same antagonistic function in the IFN induction pathway than that of other classical pestiviruses
abstract: Bungowannah virus is the most divergent atypical pestivirus that had been detected up to now, and does not fit into any of the four approved species: Bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 (BVDV-1) and type 2 (BVDV-2), Classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and Border disease virus (BDV). However, the presence of N(pro) and E(rns) coding regions, which are unique to pestiviruses, provides clear evidence of a pestivirus. Nevertheless, the amino acid identity of Bungowannah virus N(pro) and BVDV-1 N(pro) (strain CP7) is only 51.5%. By using a BVDV-1 backbone, a novel chimeric construct was generated, in which the genomic region encoding the non-structural protein N(pro) was replaced by that of Bungowannah virus (CP7_N(pro)-Bungo). In vitro studies of CP7_N(pro)-Bungo revealed autonomous replication with the same efficacy as the BVDV backbone CP7 and infectious high-titer virus could be collected. In order to compare the ability of interferon (IFN) suppression, two reporter gene assays, specific for type-I IFN, were carried out. In virus-infected cells, no significant difference in blocking of IFN expression between the parental virus CP7, Bungowannah virus and the chimeric construct CP7_N(pro)-Bungo could be detected. In contrast, an N(pro) deletion mutant showed an impaired replication in bovine cells and a marked type-I IFN response. Taken together, our findings reveal the compatibility of non-structural protein N(pro) of atypical Bungowannah virus with a BVDV type 1 backbone and its characteristic feature as an inhibitor of type-I IFN induction with an inhibitor-activity comparable to other pestiviruses.


pmid: 18316522
title: Iminosugars in combination with interferon and ribavirin permanently eradicate noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus from persistently infected cells
abstract: We evaluated interferon (IFN) and ribavirin (RBV) as dual therapy and as part of triple-combination therapies with the iminosugars N-butyl-deoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ), N-nonyl-deoxynojirimycin, and N-7-oxanonyl-6-deoxymethyl-galactonojirimycin. The ability of these compounds to clear bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a surrogate model for hepatitis C virus (HCV), from a persistently infected Madin-Darby bovine kidney cells cell line was determined by monitoring the secretion of viral RNA and the infectivity of secreted virions. In the BVDV system, after treatment with IFN-RBV alone, viral rebound was observed immediately after removal of the drugs. In contrast, we demonstrate that a triple drug combination of IFN, RBV, and an iminosugar eradicated the BVDV infection in a time- and a dose-dependent manner, leading to sustained viral clearance. Importantly, in the case of NB-DNJ, the sustained viral clearance was achieved by using physiologically relevant and tolerated drug concentrations. Therefore, the use of a triple-combination therapy that includes an iminosugar may prove to be of greater therapeutic value for the treatment of HCV infection than the use of IFN-RBV alone.


pmid: 12770539
title: A novel simple one-step single-tube RT-duplex PCR method with an internal control for detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in bulk milk, blood, and follicular fluid samples
abstract: A simple one-step single-tube RT-PCR method was developed for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in bulk milk, blood and follicular fluid samples. A set of universal primers (UTR DL1/4) was designed for RT-PCR to detect BVDV type I and II viruses simultaneously and was tested for efficacy in comparison to published primers for two type strains, 42 field isolates, and 95 diagnostic samples. The sensitivity (100%) and specificity (96.2%) of the RT-PCR assay, with the universal primers for 95 diagnostic samples, were equal to those of virus isolation. An internal control targeting a bovine actin gene was also included in the same reaction tube to monitor RNA preparation and RT-PCR procedure. A total of 632 specimens (378 bulk milk, 140 blood, and 112 follicular samples) were tested in the year 2000 by the RT-duplex PCR assay in parallel with virus isolation. The one-step single-tube RT-duplex PCR with the universal primers UTR DL1/4 was sensitive, specific, less complicated and cost effective for detection of BVDV in various types of specimens.


pmid: 9837801
title: Genetic analysis of the internal ribosome entry segment of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Pestiviruses and hepaciviruses are atypical members of the Flaviviridae due to their unique biological properties, including the utilization of internal ribosome entry for translation initiation. In contrast to internal initiation in picornaviruses, which depends on numerous canonical initiation factors, the mode of internal ribosome entry in pestiviruses and hepaciviruses resembles prokaryotic translation initiation. To identify functionally important elements within the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) internal ribosome entry segment (IRES), we carried out a mutational analysis of the 5' untranslated region (5' UTR) of BVDV cloned in the intercistronic region of a bicistronic reporter plasmid. IRES function was assessed in a bicistronic transcript by inserting the 5' 901 nucleotides of BVDV genome, which correspond to the 385 nucleotides of the 5' UTR and 515 nucleotides of the open reading frame (ORF) encoding for Npro and 4 amino acids from the capsid protein. The resulting Npro-luciferase fusion encoded by the 3' cistron was cleaved efficiently to release the luciferase reporter. In vivo translation analyses showed that stem-loops Ia and Ib in the 5' UTR were completely dispensable for efficient translation, whereas stem-loop IIIe and the hairpin end of IIIb were only partially required. In contrast, deletions or insertions in any of other four stem-loop structures, including domains II, IIIa, IIIc, and IIId, caused nearly 10-fold reductions of in vivo IRES activity. The tolerance of structural modifications within the distal portion of domain IIIb and IIIe correlated with a low level of sequence conservation in these regions among pestiviruses. The 5' boundary of the IRES resides at the 5' end of stem-loop II near nucleotide 75. The 3' of the IRES extends into the 5' end of the polyprotein ORF because removal of the Npro coding region reduced translation by 21%.


pmid: 8593411
title: Reverse transcription combined with polymerase chain reaction as a detection method for pestiviral infections
abstract: An assay based on reverse transcription coupled with the polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used for the detection of hog cholera virus (HCV) and bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in cell culture. In this study, a precipitate of the supernatants derived from cell cultures infected with HCV and BVDV was used in RT reactions, in place of extracted viral RNA. Both RT and PCR were performed using recombinant Thermus thermophilus (rTth) DNA polymerase. The specificity of the RT-PCR products was confirmed by hybridisation with a digoxygenin-labelled DNA probe. The results not only show that the stage of RNA isolation can be bypassed, but also illustrate an easy and efficient means of obtaining templates suitable for identification and characterisation of HCV and BVDV in tissue culture by RT-PCR.


pmid: 22884672
title: Molecular biology of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) are arguably the most important viral pathogen of ruminants worldwide and can cause severe economic loss. Clinical symptoms of the disease caused by BVDV range from subclinical to severe acute hemorrhagic syndrome, with the severity of disease being strain dependent. These viruses are classified as members of the Pestivirus genus of the Flaviviridae. BVDV are considered primarily a pathogen of cattle but can infect most ruminant species. The virus particle consists of a lipid bilayer membrane surrounding the encapsidated genomic RNA. Inserted in the outer membrane are two virus-encoded glycoproteins that contain the major antigenic determinants of the virus as well as receptor binding and cell fusion functions. A third glycoprotein is weakly associated with the virion, but also possesses unique features that play important roles in suppression of innate immunity. The viral proteins are encoded in a single, large open reading frame. The viral proteins are proteolytically cleaved from the polyprotein by different proteases. The structural proteins are processed by cellular signal peptidases while the processing of the nonstructural proteins is by the viral serine protease. The virus is assembled and matures in the endoplasmic reticulum and golgi bodies of the cell. The virus is released via exocytosis, where viral proteins are not exposed on the surface of the cell.


pmid: 3026300
title: Development of an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the detection of bovine serum antibody to bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: An enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was developed to detect antibody to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in bovine serum. The ELISA results were compared with those of the serum neutralisation test (SNT) using serums from 6 experimentally infected calves bled at intervals from 0 to 154 days postinfection and 886 field samples. The optical density (OD) produced by a single dilution of test serum was compared with a standard curve and the result expressed in ELISA units. Despite wide variation between absolute ELISA and SNT results, an agreement of 97% was obtained when reciprocal SNT titres greater than or equal to 8 and ELISA units greater than or equal to 10 were taken as indicative of a specific reaction. The ELISA was shown to be an efficient method of measuring antibody in bovine serum samples and would assist in any large scale screening of cattle herds for BVDV antibody.


pmid: 16760329
title: Expression of bovine viral diarrhea virus glycoprotein E2 as a soluble secreted form in a Mammalian cell line
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) membrane-anchored type I glycoprotein E2 is an approximately 53-kDa immunodominant glycoprotein inducing the production of neutralizing antibodies in the animal host after natural infection or following immunization with live or killed vaccines. The E2 coding region lacking the transmembrane domain was constructed in a soluble secreted form (secE2) and expressed in the medium of a transiently transfected human cell line. The crude conditioned medium containing secE2 can be potentially employed to develop an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay antigen for the diagnosis of BVDV infection or for vaccine purposes.


pmid: 17215285
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus: prevention of persistent fetal infection by a combination of two mutations affecting Erns RNase and Npro protease
abstract: Different genetically engineered mutants of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were analyzed for the ability to establish infection in the fetuses of pregnant heifers. The virus mutants exhibited either a deletion of the overwhelming part of the genomic region coding for the N-terminal protease N(pro), a deletion of codon 349, which abrogates the RNase activity of the structural glycoprotein E(rns), or a combination of both mutations. Two months after infection of pregnant cattle with wild-type virus or either of the single mutants, the majority of the fetuses contained virus or were aborted or found dead in the uterus. In contrast, the double mutant was not recovered from fetal tissues after a similar challenge, and no dead fetuses were found. This result was verified with a nonrelated BVDV containing similar mutations. After intrauterine challenge with wild-type virus, mutated viruses, and cytopathogenic BVDV, all viruses could be detected in fetal tissue after 5, 7, and 14 days. Type 1 interferon (IFN) could be detected in fetal serum after challenge, except with wild-type noncytopathogenic BVDV. On days 7 and 14 after challenge, the largest quantities of IFN in fetal serum were induced by the N(pro) and RNase-negative double mutant virus. The longer duration of fetal infection with the double mutant resulted in abortion. Therefore, for the first time, we have demonstrated the essential role of both N(pro) and E(rns) RNase in blocking interferon induction and establishing persistent infection by a pestivirus in the natural host.


pmid: 18316522
title: Iminosugars in combination with interferon and ribavirin permanently eradicate noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus from persistently infected cells
abstract: We evaluated interferon (IFN) and ribavirin (RBV) as dual therapy and as part of triple-combination therapies with the iminosugars N-butyl-deoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ), N-nonyl-deoxynojirimycin, and N-7-oxanonyl-6-deoxymethyl-galactonojirimycin. The ability of these compounds to clear bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a surrogate model for hepatitis C virus (HCV), from a persistently infected Madin-Darby bovine kidney cells cell line was determined by monitoring the secretion of viral RNA and the infectivity of secreted virions. In the BVDV system, after treatment with IFN-RBV alone, viral rebound was observed immediately after removal of the drugs. In contrast, we demonstrate that a triple drug combination of IFN, RBV, and an iminosugar eradicated the BVDV infection in a time- and a dose-dependent manner, leading to sustained viral clearance. Importantly, in the case of NB-DNJ, the sustained viral clearance was achieved by using physiologically relevant and tolerated drug concentrations. Therefore, the use of a triple-combination therapy that includes an iminosugar may prove to be of greater therapeutic value for the treatment of HCV infection than the use of IFN-RBV alone.


pmid: 33226564
title: Upregulation of interferon-alpha gene in bovine embryos produced in vitro in response to experimental infection with noncytophatic bovine-viral-diarrhea virus
abstract: In-vitro fertilization is a routine livestock-breeding technique widely used around the world. Several studies have reported the interaction of bovine viral-diarrhea virus (BVDV) with gametes and in-vitro-produced (IVP) bovine embryos. Since, gene expression in BVDV-infected IVP bovine embryos is scarcely addressed. The aim of this work was to evaluate the differential expression of genes involved in immune and inflammatory response. Groups of 20-25 embryos on Day 6 (morula stage) were exposed (infected) or not (control) to an NCP-BVDV strain in SOF medium. After 24 h, embryos that reached expanded blastocyst stage were washed. Total RNA of each embryo group was extracted to determine the transcription levels of 9 specific transcripts related with antiviral and inflammatory response by SYBR Green real time quantitative (RT-qPCR). Culture media and an aliquot of the last embryos wash on Day 7 were analyzed by titration and virus isolation, respectively. A conventional PCR confirmed BVDV presence in IVP embryos. A significantly higher expression of interferon-α was observed in blastocysts exposed to NCP-BVDV compared to the controls (p < 0.05). In this study, the upregulation of INFα and TLR7 genes involved in inflammatory and immune response in BVDV-infected IVP bovine embryos is a new finding in this field. This differential expression suggest that embryonic cells could function in a manner like immune cells by recognizing and responding early to interaction with viral pathogens. These results provide new insights into the action of BVDV on the complex molecular pathways controlling bovine early embryonic development.


pmid: 3026300
title: Development of an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the detection of bovine serum antibody to bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: An enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was developed to detect antibody to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in bovine serum. The ELISA results were compared with those of the serum neutralisation test (SNT) using serums from 6 experimentally infected calves bled at intervals from 0 to 154 days postinfection and 886 field samples. The optical density (OD) produced by a single dilution of test serum was compared with a standard curve and the result expressed in ELISA units. Despite wide variation between absolute ELISA and SNT results, an agreement of 97% was obtained when reciprocal SNT titres greater than or equal to 8 and ELISA units greater than or equal to 10 were taken as indicative of a specific reaction. The ELISA was shown to be an efficient method of measuring antibody in bovine serum samples and would assist in any large scale screening of cattle herds for BVDV antibody.


pmid: 16760329
title: Expression of bovine viral diarrhea virus glycoprotein E2 as a soluble secreted form in a Mammalian cell line
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) membrane-anchored type I glycoprotein E2 is an approximately 53-kDa immunodominant glycoprotein inducing the production of neutralizing antibodies in the animal host after natural infection or following immunization with live or killed vaccines. The E2 coding region lacking the transmembrane domain was constructed in a soluble secreted form (secE2) and expressed in the medium of a transiently transfected human cell line. The crude conditioned medium containing secE2 can be potentially employed to develop an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay antigen for the diagnosis of BVDV infection or for vaccine purposes.


pmid: 9210951
title: Molecular characterisation of the coding region for the p125 from homologous BVDV biotypes
abstract: We amplified and sequenced the p125 coding regions of a 'homologous' pair of BVDV biotypes, Pe515 cytopathogenic and non-cytopathogenic. The sequences were aligned with the published sequences of Osloss, NADL and the HCV Alfort strains, but no insertions of host sequence were observed in that region.


pmid: 19428750
title: Antigenic differentiation of classical swine fever viruses in China by monoclonal antibodies
abstract: The phylogenetic diversity of classical swine fever virus (CSFV) in China has been extensively studied previously, with the report of the classification of Chinese CSFVs into four subgroups within two of the established genotypes, but the antigenic differences amongst Chinese CSF viruses still remain unknown. To address this issue, 21 CSFV field strains isolated in China between 1996 and 2006 were grown in cell culture and characterized in comparison with two Chinese reference strains: a virulent strain Shimen and a vaccine strain CSF lapinized virus (hog cholera lapinized virus in China, HCLV), by indirect immunofluorescence assay (IFA) with a panel of 28 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against four pestiviruses, CSFV, bovine viral diarrhoea virus-1 (BVDV-1), bovine viral diarrhoea virus-2 (BVDV-2) and border disease virus (BDV). All 23 CSFV strains reacted only with CSFV-specific mAbs, not with those raised against BVDV-1, BVDV-2 and BDV. Of the former mAbs, those directed against CSFV E2 protein recognized more isolates than those directed against E(rns) and NS2/3. Of nine CSFV E2-specific mAbs used, WH303 and WH302 reacted with all 23 strains, confirming their value in differentiating CSFV from other pestiviruses. Furthermore, different strains had different patterns of reactivity with CSFV-specific mAbs, and mAbs other than WH303 and WH302 did not recognize all strains. This study provides the first evidence for the existence of antigenic differences among Chinese CSFVs.


pmid: 11558660
title: Testing of bulk tank milk from Northern Ireland dairy herds for viral RNA and antibody to bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Bulk tank milk samples collected from 929 Northern Ireland dairy herds were classified according to their geographical location, somatic cell count and milk yield. Each sample was tested by ELISA for antibody levels to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and the herds were assigned to four groups with increasing antibody levels. In nine herds (1 per cent) no antibodies were detectable in the milk samples (group 1) and they were detectable at low levels in the milk from 90 herds (9.7 per cent, group 2), at moderate levels in 369 herds (39.7 per cent, group 3), and at high levels in the remaining 461 herds (49.6 per cent, group 4). The testing of samples from 90 herds in groups 1 and 2 after an interval of 12 months showed that the annual incidence risk for new infections with BVDV was in the range 0.133 to 0.477. There were significant relationships (P < 0.001) between the mean corrected optical density in the ELISA and herd location and somatic cell count, but not yield; the relationship with somatic cell count was linear (P < 0.01). Forty-three group 3 herds and 49 group 4 herds were selected at random and bulk milk samples were tested for BVDV by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. None of the group 3 herds was positive, but five group 4 herds were positive.


pmid: 9833880
title: Insertion of a bovine SMT3B gene in NS4B and duplication of NS3 in a bovine viral diarrhea virus genome correlate with the cytopathogenicity of the virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in cattle can lead to the development of a fatal syndrome called mucosal disease (MD). The induction of MD requires co-existence of two biotypes of BVDV: cytopathic (cp) and non-cytopathic (ncp). Studies have shown that in some cases, cp viruses are generated from ncp viruses by cellular gene insertions, duplications or rearrangements in the viral genome. Cellular ubiquitin gene is the most frequently reported insert in BVDV 1. Here we report the finding of a novel cellular gene insertion (termed cSNCINS) in the NS4B gene accompanied by the duplication of NS3 in a cpBVDV genome. The amino acid sequence of the insert is identical to that of the human SMT3B protein and is 98% similar to that of the human SMT3A protein. Both SMT3B and SMT3A proteins are homologues of the yeast SMT3 protein. The cSNCINS protein is encoded by an open reading frame located on a 1150-bp bovine endometrial cDNA fragment. Our results indicate that the cSNCINS is a bovine homologue of the human SMT3B gene and that insertion of the BSMT3B gene together with duplication of NS3 in the viral genome may account for the cytopathogenicity of this virus.


pmid: 9573288
title: Complete genomic sequence of border disease virus, a pestivirus from sheep
abstract: The genus Pestivirus of the family Flaviviridae comprises three established species, namely, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), classical swine fever virus (CSFV), and border disease virus from sheep (BDV). In this study, we report the first complete nucleotide sequence of BDV, that of strain X818. The genome is 12,333 nucleotides long and contains one long open reading frame encoding 3, 895 amino acids. The 5' noncoding region (NCR) of BDV X818 consists of 372 nucleotides and is thus similar in length to the 5' NCR reported for other pestiviruses. The 3' NCR of X818 is 273 nucleotides long and thereby at least 32 nucleotides longer than the 3' NCR of pestiviruses analyzed thus far. Within the 3' NCR of BDV X818, the sequence motif TATTTATTTA was identified at four locations. The same repeat was found at two or three locations within the 3' NCR of different CSFV isolates but was absent in the 3' NCR of BVDV. Analysis of five additional BDV strains showed that the 3' NCR sequences are highly conserved within this species. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequence of X818 with the ones of other pestiviruses allowed the prediction of polyprotein cleavage sites which were conserved with regard to the structural proteins. It has been reported for two BVDV strains that cleavage at the nonstructural (NS) protein sites 3/4A, 4A/4B, 4B/5A, and 5A/5B is mediated by the NS3 serine protease and for each site a conserved leucine was found at the P1 position followed by either serine or alanine at P1' (N. Tautz, K. Elbers, D. Stoll, G. Meyers, and H.-J. Thiel, J. Virol. 71:5415-5422, 1997; J. Xu, E. Mendez, P. R. Caron, C. Lin, M. A. Murcko, M. S. Collett, and C. M. Rice, J. Virol. 71:5312-5322). Interestingly, P1' of the predicted NS5A/5B cleavage site of BDV is represented by an asparagine residue. Transient expression studies demonstrated that this unusual NS5A/5B processing site is efficiently cleaved by the NS3 serine protease of BDV.


pmid: 26893426
title: Complete Genome Sequencing of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus 1, Subgenotypes 1n and 1o
abstract: To gain further insight into the genomic features of bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1) subgenotypes, we sequenced the complete genome of BVDV-1n Shitara/02/06 and BVDV-1o IS26NCP/01. The complete genome of Shitara/02/06 and IS26NCP/01 shared 77.7 to 79.3% and 78.0 to 85.7% sequence identities with other BVDV-1 subgenotype strains, respectively.


pmid: 24131714
title: Functional characterization of bovine viral diarrhea virus nonstructural protein 5A by reverse genetic analysis and live cell imaging
abstract: Nonstructural protein 5A (NS5A) of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a hydrophilic phosphoprotein with RNA binding activity and a critical component of the viral replicase. In silico analysis suggests that NS5A encompasses three domains interconnected by two low-complexity sequences (LCSs). While domain I harbors two functional determinants, an N-terminal amphipathic helix important for membrane association, and a Zn-binding site essential for RNA replication, the structure and function of the C-terminal half of NS5A are still ill defined. In this study, we introduced a panel of 10 amino acid deletions covering the C-terminal half of NS5A. In the context of a highly efficient monocistronic replicon, deletions in LCS I and the N-terminal part of domain II, as well as in domain III, were tolerated with regard to RNA replication. When introduced into a bicistronic replicon, only deletions in LCS I and the N-terminal part of domain II were tolerated. In the context of the viral full-length genome, these mutations allowed residual virion morphogenesis. Based on these data, a functional monocistronic BVDV replicon coding for an NS5A variant with an insertion of the fluorescent protein mCherry was constructed. Live cell imaging demonstrated that a fraction of NS5A-mCherry localizes to the surface of lipid droplets. Taken together, this study provides novel insights into the functions of BVDV NS5A. Moreover, we established the first pestiviral replicon expressing fluorescent NS5A-mCherry to directly visualize functional viral replication complexes by live cell imaging.


pmid: 23627712
title: Different molecular mechanisms of inhibition of bovine viral diarrhea virus and hepatitis C virus RNA-dependent RNA polymerases by a novel benzimidazole
abstract: The virus-encoded RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) has emerged as a primary target in the search for selective inhibitors of Flaviviridae. Recently, we reported on the selective inhibition, in cell-based assays, of both BVDV (EC50 = 0.80 ± 0.06 μM) and HCV (EC50 = 1.11 ± 0.15 μM) by 2-{1-[2-(2,4-dimethoxyphenyl)-1H-benzimidazol-5-yl]ethylidene}hydrazinecarbothioamide (227G). Here we show that, in enzyme assays with recombinant enzymes, 227G inhibits, in a dose-dependent manner, the RdRp of both BVDV (IC50 = 0.0020 ± 0.0004 μM) and HCV (IC50 = 0.40 ± 0.04 μM). Furthermore, we report on the selection and molecular analysis of a BVDV-resistant mutant, characterized by the presence of the I261M mutation. By applying a multilevel computational approach, we identified different 227G binding sites on the two RdRps. They were further validated by the good agreement between the calculated affinities and those extrapolated from IC50 values. Our findings suggest different molecular mechanisms of inhibition of the HCV and BVDV RdRps by 227G and indicate the importance of understanding ligand-enzyme interactions at the molecular level for the rational design of new and more potent leads.


pmid: 18796719
title: RNase-dependent inhibition of extracellular, but not intracellular, dsRNA-induced interferon synthesis by Erns of pestiviruses
abstract: Recombinant pestivirus envelope glycoprotein E(rns) has been shown to interfere with dsRNA-induced interferon (IFN-alpha/beta) synthesis. This study demonstrated that authentic, enzymically active E(rns) produced in mammalian cells prevented a dsRNA-induced IFN response when present in the supernatant of bovine cells. Strikingly, IFN synthesis of cells expressing E(rns) was eliminated after extracellular addition, but not transfection, of dsRNA. Importantly, the same applied to cells infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) expressing E(rns) but lacking the N-terminal protease N(pro). Free E(rns) concentrations circulating in the blood of animals persistently infected with BVDV were determined to be approximately 50 ng ml(-1), i.e. at a similar order of magnitude as that displaying an effect on dsRNA-induced IFN expression in vitro. Whilst N(pro) blocks interferon regulatory factor-3-dependent IFN induction in infected cells, E(rns) may prevent constant IFN induction in uninfected cells by dsRNA that could originate from pestivirus-infected cells. This probably contributes to the survival of persistently BVDV-infected animals and maintains viral persistence in the host population.


pmid: 17383693
title: Pathogenicity of an Indian isolate of bovine viral diarrhea virus 1b in experimentally infected calves
abstract: The aim of this study was to determine the pathogenicity of an Indian bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) 1b isolate in 7-9-months-old male calves. Infected (four) and control (two) calves were bled at three days interval for hematological, virological and serological studies until day 27. All infected calves developed respiratory illness, biphasic pyrexia, mild diarrhea, leucopenia and mild thrombocytopenia. Viraemia was demonstrated between 3 and 15dpi and the infected calves seroconverted by 15dpi. Prominent kidney lesions were endothelial cell swelling, proliferation of mesangial cells and podocytes leading to glomerular space obliteration. Degeneration and desquamation of cells lining seminiferous tubules were observed in two infected calves. Consolidation of lungs with interstitial pneumonia, mild gastroenteritis and systemic spread were also evident. It was concluded that Indian BVDV isolate induced moderate clinical disease in calves and glomerulonephritis resulting from acute BVDV infection was observed for the first time.


pmid: 16312238
title: Effects of delayed or prolonged fixation on immunohistochemical detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus type I in skin of two persistently infected calves
abstract: The effects of delayed or prolonged fixation on immunohistochemical detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) antigen were evaluated in skin. Ear-notch specimens from 2 calves persistently infected with BVDV type 1 were handled in 1 of 3 ways: 1) fixed in formalin promptly and processed for immunohistochemistry (IHC) after 3-176 days; 2) held at 3-4degreesC in plastic bags up to 10 days, then fixed in formalin for 2-5 days before processing; or 3) exposed to room air and temperature for 1-5 days before formalin fixation. Immunohistochemical staining intensity was evaluated without the knowledge of specimen handling. Staining of specimens that had been promptly fixed in formalin was moderate to strong at all fixation periods through 36 days, weak or no staining was evident in specimens fixed for 176 days. Refrigerated specimens typically had moderate to strong immunohistochemical staining. Even after 10 days of refrigeration before fixation, all immunohistochemical reactions were positive. However, no immunohistochemical staining was detected in any specimen that was exposed to room air. Results indicate that prompt formalin fixation is optimal for BVDV IHC. Samples can be held in formalin at least 36 days, without loss of reactivity. A 1-day delay in fixation caused no loss of reactivity, provided the specimen was refrigerated and protected from desiccation.


pmid: 14510050
title: The effects of experimental infection with bovine diarrhoea virus (BVDV) on lymphocyte subpopulations in the peripheral blood of pigs
abstract: The aim of the study was to analyse the dynamics of selected lymphocytes subpopulations in peripheral blood of pigs infected with BVDV, using flow cytometric method. The examinations were performed on eighteen healthy, pestivirus-free pigs divided into 3 groups. Pigs in the group 1 were intranasally infected with two virulent reference strains of BVDV: NADL2 and NADL8. Pigs of group 2 were included into experimentally infected ones. Group 3 consisted of control pigs free from infection. The percentage of CD2+ lymphocytes was gradually decreasing during the experiment. Finally a decrease by 20% was noted in group 2 and by 9% in group 1. A slight decrease of CD4+ cells and more significant decrease of CD8+ subpopulation were observed. The CD4:CD8 ratio changed from approximately 3:5 to 1:1 in pigs of group 2, and from 1:2 to 1:3 in pigs of group 1. There were only small fluctuations regarding TcR(gamma)delta+ cells. The level of these lymphocytes increased during first hours post infection and then decreased to the initial value. Obtained results may indicate that infection with species-unspecific pestiviruses causes similar, but less significant, changes within lymphocyte subpopulations than infection with species-specific pestiviruses.


pmid: 12770538
title: Gene expression changes in BVDV2-infected MDBK cells
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is a ubiquitous viral pathogen of cattle. The virus exists as one of two biotypes, cytopathic and non-cytopathic, based on the ability to induce cytopathic effect in cell culture. The non-cytopathic biotypes are able to establish non-apparent, persistent infections in both cell culture and in bovine foetuses of fewer than 150 days gestation. The mechanism by which viral tolerance is established is unknown. To examine the changes in gene expression that occur following infection of host cells with BVDV, serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE), a global gene expression technology was used. SAGE, a sequence-based technology, allows quantification of virtually every transcript in a cell type without prior sequence information. Transcript expression levels and identities are determined by DNA sequencing of libraries composed of 14 base DNA fragments (tags) derived from the 3' end of each cellular mRNA transcript. Comparison of data obtained from non-infected and BVDV2-infected cell libraries revealed a number of changes in gene expression. Many of these transcriptional changes could be placed into distinct biochemical pathways or functions. Both alpha and beta tubulins were downregulated, indicating possible dysfunction in cell division and other functions where microtubules play a major role. Expression of several genes encoding proteins involved in energy metabolism were downregulated, indicating possible decreased ATP synthesis. Genes encoding proteins involved in protein translation and post-translational modifications were generally upregulated. These data indicate that following infection with BVDV, changes in gene expression occur that are beneficial for virus replication while placing the cell at a metabolic disadvantage.


pmid: 1651596
title: Pestivirus gene expression: protein p80 of bovine viral diarrhea virus is a proteinase involved in polyprotein processing
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), the prototypic pestivirus, possesses a positive-strand RNA genome with a single large open reading frame (ORF) encoding about 4000 amino acids. We have endeavored to elucidate the mechanisms involved in protein biogenesis by this pestivirus. Here, we present our studies on gene expression from the viral nonstructural protein coding region encompassing the carboxy-terminal 60% of the ORF. Previous sequence and modeling analyses predicted the amino-terminal region of the BVDV nonstructural protein p80 to be a trypsin-like serine proteinase. Using a mammalian cell transient expression system, we show that this region indeed possessed a proteolytic activity and, further, required the serine residue previously predicted to be the putative serine proteinase catalytic site. We found the p80-region proteinase activity was required for proteolytic processing of all viral nonstructural proteins. Cleavage by this activity at the amino and carboxy termini of the p80 protein itself likely occurred intramolecularly (in cis), since we were unable to demonstrate activity in trans at these sites. Cleavages at the three processing sites downstream of the carboxy terminus of p80 were shown to occur in trans. However, p80 proteinase activity alone was not sufficient for cleavage of the last of these sites. Another viral gene product, or specific condition, is implicated as a necessary cofactor for p80 proteinase activity at this site. Pestivirus polyprotein processing can now be compared to similar events by viruses of other groups. Finally, the potential role of p80 proteinase activity in the phenotype of cytopathic biotypes of BVDV is discussed.


pmid: 15062470
title: The many faces of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The complex and unique nature of bovine viral diarrhea virus(BVDV) continues to present challenges to infectious disease re-searchers, veterinarians, and the cattle industry. In addition, the BVDV pathogen will undoubtedly continue to change and present itself in many different configurations.


pmid: 3619343
title: Pathogenesis and epidemiology of bovine virus diarrhoea virus infection of cattle
abstract: An outline of the clinical diseases that arise following BVDV infection is given. Isolates of BVDV can be separated into two forms non-cytopathic and cytopathic depending on their effect on cell cultures. In utero infection of the foetus with non-cytopathic virus may result in a number of syndromes, such as abortions, stillbirths or weak calves. It may also result in the birth of calves with a persistent viraemia and these animals may later develop mucosal disease as a result of superinfection with a "homologous" cytopathic strain of BVDV. Acute infection of seronegative animals in usually mild and subclinical. A chronic disease also occurs and this can be protracted with progressive wastage and diarrhoea. This condition has not yet been well defined but it is suggested that it may be the result of superinfection of a viraemic animal with a "heterologous" cytopathic strain of virus. The maintenance of non-cytopathic virus within the cattle population can be either by the slow spread following acute infections of seronegative animals or, more importantly, by spread from persistently viraemic cattle. The cytopathic virus is usually found in association with cases of mucosal disease and may be maintained in the population only by continually arising, possibly by mutation, from the non-cytopathic virus. It is recommended that persistently viraemic animals are eliminated from the herd to avoid in utero infections and the possibility of subsequent mucosal disease.


pmid: 6277214
title: Effects of incubation temperatures and bovine viral diarrhea virus immune serum on bovine turbinate cells persistently infected with a noncytopathogenic isolate of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) on initial inoculation in receptive cells induced a persistence in vitro at incubation temperatures of 33, 37, and 39 C. The mechanisms of this persistence were not the result of the induction of defective interfering particles or the selection of temperature-sensitive mutants, but were the result of a naturally occurring noncytopathogenic isolate of BVDV. Persistently infected cells were not freed of the infection by continuous passage in media containing homologous antibody. Persistently infected cells appeared to undergo an earlier senescence than did noninoculated cells of the same passage level and age. This phenomenon was reversed by renewal of the culture media.


pmid: 28854799
title: Photodynamic Effect of some Phthalocyanines on Enveloped and Naked Viruses
abstract: Activity of three photosensitizing phthalocyanine derivatives was tested for photodynamic inactivation towards two coated and two non-enveloped viruses - bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), influenza virus A(H3N2), poliovirus type 1 (PV-1) and human adenovirus type 5 (HAdV5). In the case of coated viruses, a combination of virucidal and irradiation effects was registered by octa-methylpyridyloxy-substituted Ga phthalocyanine (Ga8) toward BVDV, whereas tetra-methylpyridyloxy-substituted Ga phthalocyanine (Ga4) revealed a marked photoinactivation only. No such effect was observed towards influenza A virus. In contrast, the photoinactivating potential of Ga4 and Ga8 marked very high values on naked viruses, especially on HAdV5, at which both the virucidal as well as the irradiation effects became combined.


pmid: 2544973
title: Demonstration of bovine virus diarrhoea virus antigen in formalin fixed, paraffin embedded tissue using a streptavidin/biotin technique
abstract: The detection of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) antigen in sections from formalin fixed, paraffin embedded tissue is described. Pre-digestion of the sections with 0.02 per cent protease XIV for 18 hours at 4 degrees C is necessary to unmask formalin fixed antigen. A hyperimmune antiserum prepared in a pig, using a combination of BVDV and hog cholera virus inoculations, linked to a biotinylated anti-pig/streptavidin peroxidase detection system demonstrated antigen in a wide range of tissues from cases of mucosal disease and persistently viraemic animals. The inclusion of a monoclonal anti-pig immunoglobulin linked to a biotinylated anti-mouse/streptavidin peroxidase detection system greatly reduced non-specific staining.


pmid: 26970496
title: 3-(imidazo[1,2-a:5,4-b']dipyridin-2-yl)aniline inhibits pestivirus replication by targeting a hot spot drug binding pocket in the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase
abstract: The compound 3-(imidazo[1,2-a:5,4-b']dipyridin-2-yl)aniline (CF02334) was identified as a selective inhibitor of the cytopathic effect (CPE) caused by bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in a virus-cell-based assay. The EC50-values for inhibition of CPE, viral RNA synthesis and the production of infectious virus progeny were 13.0 ± 0.6 μM, 2.6 ± 0.9 μM and 17.8 ± 0.6 μM, respectively. CF02334 was found to be inactive in the hepatitis C subgenomic replicon system. CF02334-resistant BVDV was obtained and was found to carry the N264D mutation in the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp). Molecular modeling revealed that N264D is located in a small cavity near the fingertip domain of the pestivirus polymerase. CF02334-resistant BVDV was proven to be cross-resistant to BPIP, AG110 and LZ37, inhibitors that have previously been described to target the same region of the BVDV RdRp. CF02334 did not inhibit the in vitro activity of recombinant BVDV RdRp, but did inhibit the activity of BVDV replication complexes. Taken together, these observations indicate that CF02334 likely interacts with the fingertip of the pestivirus RdRp at the same position as BPIP, AG110 and LZ37, which marks this region of the viral polymerase as a "hot spot" for inhibition of pestivirus replication.


pmid: 31539795
title: HoBi-like pestivirus infection in an outbreak of bovine respiratory disease
abstract: HoBi-like is an emerging pestivirus of the family Flaviviridae detected in cattle herds and biological products of bovine origin in many parts of the world, causing disease similar to that observed in bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections. In this study we reported the detection of HoBi-like pestivirus in an outbreak of respiratory disease in calves from Brazil, seropositive for viruses of the bovine respiratory disease complex (BRDC). Thus, serum samples and nasal swabs were collected from calves up to one year old, presenting or not clinical signs of respiratory disease. Serum samples were submitted to virus neutralization test (VNT) for BVDV-1, BVDV-2, bovine herpesvirus-1 (BoHV-1), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) and bovine parainfluenza-3 (BPIV-3). These samples were also tested for the presence of pestiviruses (BVDV-1, BVDV-2 and HoBi-like) and BoHV-1 by RT-PCR and PCR, respectively. Nasal swabs were analyzed by RT-PCR for pestiviruses, BRSV and BPIV-3. VNT results showed high serological prevalence and a wide range of antibodies titers, for all viruses studied, in calves of different age groups. The RT-PCR amplified the 5'UTR and E2 regions of pestiviruses of four calves, from both nasal swabs and serum samples, which sequencing identified the HoBi-like pestivirus. This is the first detection of HoBi-like in nasal secretions of calves in an outbreak of respiratory disease in Brazil, along with the serological detection of other respiratory viruses. We concluded that HoBi-like pestivirus should be considered as part of the BRDC, as a differential diagnosis, to take correct measures of control and prophylaxis.


pmid: 26893426
title: Complete Genome Sequencing of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus 1, Subgenotypes 1n and 1o
abstract: To gain further insight into the genomic features of bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1) subgenotypes, we sequenced the complete genome of BVDV-1n Shitara/02/06 and BVDV-1o IS26NCP/01. The complete genome of Shitara/02/06 and IS26NCP/01 shared 77.7 to 79.3% and 78.0 to 85.7% sequence identities with other BVDV-1 subgenotype strains, respectively.


pmid: 24131714
title: Functional characterization of bovine viral diarrhea virus nonstructural protein 5A by reverse genetic analysis and live cell imaging
abstract: Nonstructural protein 5A (NS5A) of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a hydrophilic phosphoprotein with RNA binding activity and a critical component of the viral replicase. In silico analysis suggests that NS5A encompasses three domains interconnected by two low-complexity sequences (LCSs). While domain I harbors two functional determinants, an N-terminal amphipathic helix important for membrane association, and a Zn-binding site essential for RNA replication, the structure and function of the C-terminal half of NS5A are still ill defined. In this study, we introduced a panel of 10 amino acid deletions covering the C-terminal half of NS5A. In the context of a highly efficient monocistronic replicon, deletions in LCS I and the N-terminal part of domain II, as well as in domain III, were tolerated with regard to RNA replication. When introduced into a bicistronic replicon, only deletions in LCS I and the N-terminal part of domain II were tolerated. In the context of the viral full-length genome, these mutations allowed residual virion morphogenesis. Based on these data, a functional monocistronic BVDV replicon coding for an NS5A variant with an insertion of the fluorescent protein mCherry was constructed. Live cell imaging demonstrated that a fraction of NS5A-mCherry localizes to the surface of lipid droplets. Taken together, this study provides novel insights into the functions of BVDV NS5A. Moreover, we established the first pestiviral replicon expressing fluorescent NS5A-mCherry to directly visualize functional viral replication complexes by live cell imaging.


pmid: 23627712
title: Different molecular mechanisms of inhibition of bovine viral diarrhea virus and hepatitis C virus RNA-dependent RNA polymerases by a novel benzimidazole
abstract: The virus-encoded RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) has emerged as a primary target in the search for selective inhibitors of Flaviviridae. Recently, we reported on the selective inhibition, in cell-based assays, of both BVDV (EC50 = 0.80 ± 0.06 μM) and HCV (EC50 = 1.11 ± 0.15 μM) by 2-{1-[2-(2,4-dimethoxyphenyl)-1H-benzimidazol-5-yl]ethylidene}hydrazinecarbothioamide (227G). Here we show that, in enzyme assays with recombinant enzymes, 227G inhibits, in a dose-dependent manner, the RdRp of both BVDV (IC50 = 0.0020 ± 0.0004 μM) and HCV (IC50 = 0.40 ± 0.04 μM). Furthermore, we report on the selection and molecular analysis of a BVDV-resistant mutant, characterized by the presence of the I261M mutation. By applying a multilevel computational approach, we identified different 227G binding sites on the two RdRps. They were further validated by the good agreement between the calculated affinities and those extrapolated from IC50 values. Our findings suggest different molecular mechanisms of inhibition of the HCV and BVDV RdRps by 227G and indicate the importance of understanding ligand-enzyme interactions at the molecular level for the rational design of new and more potent leads.


pmid: 15119730
title: Indirect transmission of bovine viral diarrhoea virus at calving and during the postparturient period
abstract: Two trials were designed to investigate whether bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) could be transmitted after the birth of persistently infected calves, even if they were removed immediately after birth. In trial 1, 11 calves were actively exposed to fetal fluids and uterine lochia collected from cows that had delivered calves persistently infected with type 1 BVDV. One calf that was exposed to a sample taken on the day of calving seroconverted. In trial 2, six calves were housed in stables where persistently infected calves were being born and then removed immediately from their dams and from the stable unit within two to three hours. One of four calves in close contact with the cows after delivery seroconverted and one of two calves housed within the same stable unit became infected.


pmid: 11402685
title: Pathogenicity of a bovine viral diarrhoea virus strain in pregnant sows: short communication
abstract: The biological properties of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) strain Oregon C24V were studied after intranasal and subcutaneous infection of pregnant sows. This virus strain is widely used in Hungary for immunising cattle against bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD). Based upon the results of the clinical, gross pathological, histopathological and virological examinations it can be established that the given strain caused asymptomatic infection and serological conversion in sows that were in the second third of gestation. The virus caused clinically apparent disease in some of the piglets born at term, which indicates that it had crossed the placenta. More than half (57%) of the live-born piglets died within 60 days of birth. The sows and their progeny did not shed the virus. BVDV infection has great differential diagnostic importance in pigs, as classical swine fever (CSF) virus strains of reduced virulence cause similar clinical symptoms and gross and histopathological changes.


pmid: 2428160
title: Production of monoclonal antibodies against swine fever virus and their use in laboratory diagnosis
abstract: Thirteen hybridoma cell lines which secrete monoclonal antibodies (MCAs) against swine fever virus (SFV) strain Brescia were produced. The hybrid cells resulted from fusion of P3X63-Ag8.653 myeloma cells with splenocytes of Balb/c mice which had been immunized with purified SFV. Screening of supernatant fluids was performed by an indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and an immunoperoxidase monolayer assay (IPMA). The IPMA, and an immunoperoxidase test (IPT) performed on cryostat sections, were used to characterize these MCAs on several pestivirus strains. All MCAs reacted to a varying degree with all but one of the SFV strains tested. None of the MCAs reacted with the bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) strains. Two MCAs are now used routinely in the differential diagnosis between infections with field strains of SFV, and the Chinese vaccine strain and BVDV strains.


pmid: 32359990
title: Development of a quantitative risk assessment of bovine viral diarrhea virus and bovine herpesvirus-1 introduction in dairy cattle herds to improve biosecurity
abstract: A quantitative risk assessment model was developed to estimate the annual probability of introducing bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and bovine herpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1) at the farm level through animal movements. Data from 2017 official animal movements, biosecurity questionnaires, scientific literature, and expert opinion from field veterinarians were taken into consideration for model input parameters. Purchasing or introducing cattle, rearing replacement heifers offsite, showing cattle at competitions, sharing transport vehicles with other herds, and transporting cattle in vehicles that have not been cleaned and disinfected were considered in the model. The annual probability of introducing BVDV or BoHV-1 through infected animals was very heterogeneous between farms. The median likelihoods of BVDV and BoHV-1introduction were 12 and 9%, respectively. Farms that purchased cattle from within their region (i.e., local movements) and shared transport with other farms had a higher probability for BVDV and BoHV-1 introduction. This model can be a useful tool to support decision-making on biosecurity measures that should be prioritized to reduce the probability of introduction of these 2 diseases in dairy herds.


pmid: 19293152
title: Inhibition of sphingosine kinase by bovine viral diarrhea virus NS3 is crucial for efficient viral replication and cytopathogenesis
abstract: Sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) is a bioactive sphingolipid implicated in diverse cellular functions including survival, proliferation, tumorigenesis, inflammation, and immunity. Sphingosine kinase (SphK) contributes to these functions by converting sphingosine to S1P. We report here that the nonstructural protein NS3 from bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a close relative of hepatitis C virus (HCV), binds to and inhibits the catalytic activity of SphK1 independently of its serine protease activity, whereas HCV NS3 does not affect SphK1 activity. Uncleaved NS2-3 from BVDV was also found to interact with and inhibit SphK1. We suspect that inhibition of SphK1 activity by BVDV NS3 and NS2-3 may benefit viral replication, because SphK1 inhibition by small interfering RNA, chemical inhibitor, or overexpression of catalytically inactive SphK1 results in enhanced viral replication, although the mechanisms by which SphK1 inhibition leads to enhanced viral replication remain unknown. A role of SphK1 inhibition in viral cytopathogenesis is also suggested as overexpression of SphK1 significantly attenuates the induction of apoptosis in cells infected with cytopathogenic BVDV. These findings suggest that SphK is targeted by this virus to regulate its catalytic activity.


pmid: 29519519
title: Factors associated with the bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) status in cattle herds in Northwest Germany
abstract: In Germany, all calves are tested for the presence of bovine viral diarrhoea/mucosal disease virus (BVDV) virus since January 1, 2011. The basis for this compulsory investigation is the BVDV Federal Regulation (BVDVV), which demands testing of calves before the age of six months and according to the new regulation of June 2016 within four weeks or before entering another stock. In 2012, a questionnaire was sent to 7250 Lower Saxony cattle farmers to identify potential factors associated with the presence of BVDV. Completed questionnaires were received from 2542 farms for further analysis. For BVD status determination of these farms, the diagnostic results of 425,911 ear notch samples of calves as part of the BVD eradication period from June 2010 to December 2013 were used. For the analysis of the completed questionnaires, a univariable analysis was performed by the chi-square or Wilcoxon test for each variable studied. In addition, a multivariable logistic model was performed. Four potential risk factors remained after a backward selection in the final logistic regression model: the dairy production compared to the suckling and other types of production, the herd size, the purchase of animals and the location in western region in comparison with the central and eastern regions. In summary, according to the results of this study, the farm with the highest probability of a BVDV infection in Lower Saxony is a large dairy farm that purchases cattle and is located in a cattle-dense region. When the complete eradication of the virus will be achieved, the results of the present study may help to conduct a risk-oriented monitoring programme.


pmid: 26943916
title: The chasm between public health and reproductive research: what history tells us about Zika virus
abstract: Zika transmission from mother to fetus and its possible sexual transmission have become a media focus in the past months as a major public health concern. While mother-to-fetus transmission, fetal neurologic manifestations or sexual transmission have never been documented for this virus before, other viruses that belong to the same family are very well known to reproductive health workers, clinicians, and researchers. As a member of Flaviviridae family, including hepatitis C and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), Zika's pathogenesis may have some parallels with these infections which may pose future questions for public health and research. Vertical transmission of hepatitis C virus from mother to child is known to occur in up to 10 % of pregnancies. BVDV, a member of Pestivirus genus of Flaviviridae family is not known to be transmitted to humans but is known for its vertical transmission in cattle. BVDV infection at different stages of gestation may lead to a spectrum of adverse pregnancy outcomes, including pregnancy loss and neurologic manifestations (including deformations such as hydrocephalus and microcephaly) in the offspring. Similar to hepatitis C, which is a virus of Hepacivirus genus, BVDV is capable of persistent infection, meaning that virus may stay in mother and future generations of calves may be infected as well, which may, in turn, result in persistence of infection in offspring. Would this be a case with Zika virus? Along with mother-to-fetus transmission, sexual transmission is a concerning implication for Zika virus. Would woman become a persistent career or male be able to persistently carry virus with its sperm is yet unknown; yet, there is a concern for the reservoir of infection. Animal models of the disease are urgently needed not only to demonstrate the mother-to-fetus transmission and confirm the fetal neurologic manifestations but also to address the effects of virus on life-long host's immunity and reproductive health. Along those lines, women desiring pregnancies who are identified to travel, have a partner traveling to, or living in the areas of Zika infections should be encouraged to have a preconception consultation with maternal-fetal medicine.


pmid: 23295482
title: Expression, purification and crystallization of the ectodomain of the envelope glycoprotein E2 from Bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is an economically important animal pathogen which is closely related to Hepatitis C virus. Of the structural proteins, the envelope glycoprotein E2 of BVDV is the major antigen which induces neutralizing antibodies; thus, BVDV E2 is considered as an ideal target for use in subunit vaccines. Here, the expression, purification of wild-type and mutant forms of the ectodomain of BVDV E2 and subsequent crystallization and data collection of two crystal forms grown at low and neutral pH are reported. Native and multiple-wavelength anomalous dispersion (MAD) data sets have been collected and structure determination is in progress.


pmid: 18692926
title: Risk factors associated with Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis seropositivity in Canadian dairy cows and herds
abstract: Our objective was to determine the risk factors associated with the seroprevalence of Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP) in a large number of randomly selected Canadian dairy herds, controlling for important confounding variables and co-infections with bovine leukemia virus (BLV), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and Neospora caninum (NC). Serum samples from 30 randomly selected cows, where available, in 315 herds from seven provinces were tested for antibodies against BLV, MAP and NC using commercially available enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA) test kits, while five unvaccinated cattle >6 months old from each herd were tested for antibodies to BVDV. We used a zero-inflated negative-binomial (ZINB) multivariable model to determine simultaneously the risk factors associated with the count of MAP-seropositive cows in a herd, and the odds of herds having no MAP-seropositive cows as compared to having one or more MAP seropositive cows in a herd. The following factors were significantly positively associated with the count of MAP-seropositive cows: "more than one cow in the maternity pen", "group-housing for pre-weaned calves in winter", "open heifers purchased during the last 12 months", "beef cattle direct (nose-to-nose) contact", "BVDV-seropositive herds (> or = 1 animal with > or = 1:64 titer)" and "BVD vaccination not done properly in calves" (i.e. after 6 months old, animals were not boostered 2-4 weeks after their first killed vaccine, or not given modified live vaccine), with count ratios of 1.7, 2.0, 2.3, 1.9, 1.4 and 1.8, respectively. The variable "BVDV vaccination (modified live) done properly in calves" (i.e. received another modified live vaccination after 6 months as well) was associated with 0.4 times fewer MAP-seropositive cows.


pmid: 17376555
title: Activation of cell signaling pathways is dependant on the biotype of bovine viral diarrhea viruses type 2
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a pestivirus of the Flaviviridae family, is an economically important cattle pathogen with a worldwide distribution. Besides the segregation into two distinct species (BVDV1/BVDV2) two different biotypes, a cytopathic (cp) and a noncytopathic (ncp) biotype, are distinguished based on their behavior in epithelial cell cultures. One of the most serious forms of BVDV infection affecting immunocompetent animals of all ages is severe acute BVD (sa BVD) which is caused by highly virulent ncp BVDV2 strains. Previous studies revealed that these highly virulent ncp viruses cause cell death in a lymphoid cell line (BL3) which is not clearly associated with typical apoptotic changes (e.g. PARP cleavage) observed after infection with cp BVDV. To further characterize the underlying molecular mechanisms, we first analyzed the role of the mitochondria and caspases as key mediators of apoptosis. Compared to infection with cp BVDV2, infection with highly virulent ncp BVDV2 resulted in a delayed and less pronounced disruption of the mitochondrial transmembrane potential (DeltaPsi(m)) and a weaker activation of the caspase cascade. In contrast, infection with low virulence ncp BVDV2 showed no significant differences from the uninfected control cells. Since different pro- and anti-apoptotic cellular signaling pathways may become activated upon virus infection, we compared the effect of different BVDV2 strains on cellular signaling pathways in BL3 cells. Stress-mediated p38 MAPK phosphorylation was detected only in cells infected with cp BVDV2. Interestingly, infection with highly virulent ncp BVDV2 was found to influence the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-Akt pathway. This indicates that BL3 cells respond differently to infection with BVDV depending on virulence and biotype.


pmid: 24746130
title: Monitoring the bulk milk antibody response to bovine viral diarrhea in dairy herds vaccinated with inactivated vaccines
abstract: This study was designed to determine long-term responses in dairy herds after vaccination with 1 of 3 inactivated bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) vaccines with regard to antibodies against p80 protein in bulk tank milk samples, as detected by ELISA. In the present study, 29 dairy herds were vaccinated with Bovilis BVD (MSD Animal Health, Milton Keynes, UK), 11 with Hiprabovis Balance (Laboratorios Hipra, Amer, Spain), and 9 with Pregsure BVD (Zoetis, Florham Park, NJ). In these herds, bulk tank milk samples were collected and examined at the time of the first vaccination and every 6 mo during a 3-yr period. Samples were analyzed with a commercial ELISA test for the p80 protein of BVDV. The results demonstrated that vaccination affected the level of antibodies against p80. Hence, vaccination status should be taken into consideration when interpreting bulk tank milk antibody tests.


pmid: 23506546
title: Pathogenic mechanisms implicated in the intravascular coagulation in the lungs of BVDV-infected calves challenged with BHV-1
abstract: Resistance to respiratory disease in cattle requires host defense mechanisms that protect against pathogens which have evolved sophisticated strategies to evade them, including an altered function of pulmonary macrophages (MΦs) or the induction of inflammatory responses that cause lung injury and sepsis. The aim of this study was to clarify the mechanisms responsible for vascular changes occurring in the lungs of calves infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and challenged later with bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BHV-1), evaluating the role of MΦs in the development of pathological lesions in this organ. For this purpose, pulmonary lesions were compared between co-infected calves and healthy animals inoculated only with BHV-1 through immunohistochemical (MAC387, TNFα, IL-1α, iNOS, COX-2 and Factor-VIII) and ultrastructural studies. Both groups of calves presented important vascular alterations produced by fibrin microthrombi and platelet aggregations within the blood vessels. These findings were earlier and more severe in the co-infected group, indicating that the concomitance of BVDV and BHV-1 in the lungs disrupts the pulmonary homeostasis by facilitating the establishment of an inflammatory and procoagulant environment modulated by inflammatory mediators released by pulmonary MΦs. In this regard, the co-infected calves, in spite of presenting a greater number of IMΦs than single-infected group, show a significant decrease in iNOS expression coinciding with the presence of more coagulation lesions. Moreover, animals pre-inoculated with BVDV displayed an alteration in the response of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNFα and IL-1), which play a key role in activating the immune response, as well as in the local cell-mediated response.


pmid: 11878878
title: A family of closely related bovine viral diarrhea virus recombinants identified in an animal suffering from mucosal disease: new insights into the development of a lethal disease in cattle
abstract: Induction of lethal mucosal disease (MD) in cattle is linked to the generation of cytopathogenic (cp) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in animals persistently infected with a noncytopathogenic BVDV. In most cases the cp variants are generated by recombination with cellular or viral sequences. BVDV was obtained from the serum of an MD animal and propagated in tissue culture without plaque purification. Analysis of cDNA clones established from RNA of these cells showed that apparently a variety of different viral RNAs were present. Seven of the cDNA clones contained a cellular sequence coding for light chain 3 (LC3) of microtubule-associated proteins 1A and 1B. This insertion had already been found in the cp virus JaCP obtained from the same animal and isolated by plaque purification. Analysis of further plaque-purified cp viruses showed that the diseased animal contained a family of closely related cp BVDV recombinants. A set of viruses with different duplications of viral sequences in their genomes and a variety of defective viral RNAs with deletions were found that all contained the LC3* insertion. For all the recombinants the 3' recombination sites and, in all but one case, also the 5' recombination sites between cellular and viral sequence were identical. Variation between the individual deduced genome structures resulted from different duplications or deletions of viral sequences located upstream of the cellular insertion. These results suggest that within the animal a primary recombinant with a genome containing the LC3* insertion was generated. In a trimming process a set of secondary virus recombinants was generated from this hypothetical primary recombined RNA. These secondary recombinants display genome structures that represent variations of the basic scheme already present in the primary recombinant. Apparently this trimming process that finally led to an outbreak of MD lasted a long time since recombined RNA with the basic genome structure of the cp viruses could be demonstrated in samples already taken a long time before outbreak of the disease.


pmid: 27619057
title: Phylogeography, phylodynamics and transmission chains of bovine viral diarrhea virus subtype 1f in Northern Italy
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type 1 in Italy is characterized by high genetic diversity, with at least 20 subtypes. Subtype 1f is endemic in a restricted geographic area, meaning that it has local distribution. We investigated the population dynamics of BVDV-1f in Northern Italy and characterized the transmission chains of a subset of samples from Piedmont and Aosta Valley regions. A total of 51 samples from 1966 to 2013 were considered and 5' UTR sequences were used for phylogeography. A subset of 12 samples was selected for Npro gene sequencing and further characterization of the transmission chains using both molecular and epidemiological data. Phylogeography estimated the root of BVDV-1f tree in Veneto in 1965. Four significant subclades included sequences clustering by region: Lombardy (n=3), Lombardy and Emilia-Romagna (n=7), Piedmont (n=17), Piedmont and Aosta Valley (n=21). The Piedmont-only subclade has a ladder-like branching structure, while the Piedmont and Aosta Valley subclade has a nearly complete binary structure. In the subset, the outbreak reconstruction identified one sample from Piedmont as the most probable source of infection for the Aosta Valley cases. An ad hoc questionnaire submitted to public veterinarians revealed connections between sampled and non-sampled farms by means of trades, exhibitions and markets. According to the phylogeography, BVDV-1f moved westward, entering from Veneto, and spreading to Lombardy and Emilia-Romagna in the early 1990s, and finally to Piedmont and Aosta Valley in the first decade of 2000s. Both phylogeographic analyses on the whole dataset and on the selection of Npro dataset pointed out that subtype 1f entered Aosta Valley from Piedmont. The integration of molecular and epidemiological data revealed connections between farms, and such approach should be considered in any control plan. In Aosta Valley, the study showed that BVDV1f can be controlled only monitoring the introduction of cattle from Piedmont region.


pmid: 27108192
title: Detection and characterization of viruses as field and vaccine strains in feedlot cattle with bovine respiratory disease
abstract: This study investigated viruses in bovine respiratory disease (BRD) cases in feedlots, including bovine herpesvirus-1 (BoHV-1), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), bovine coronaviruses (BoCV) and parainfluenza-3 virus (PI3V). Nasal swabs were collected from 114 cattle on initial BRD treatment. Processing included modified live virus (MLV) vaccination. Seven BRD necropsy cases were included for 121 total cases. Mean number of days on feed before first sample was 14.9 days. Swabs and tissue homogenates were tested by gel based PCR (G-PCR), quantitative-PCR (qPCR) and quantitative real time reverse transcriptase PCR (qRT-PCR) and viral culture. There were 87/114 (76.3%) swabs positive for at least one virus by at least one test. All necropsy cases were positive for at least one virus. Of 121 cases, positives included 18/121 (14.9%) BoHV-1; 19/121 (15.7%) BVDV; 76/121 (62.8%) BoCV; 11/121 (9.1%) BRSV; and 10/121 (8.3%) PI3V. For nasal swabs, G-PCR (5 viruses) detected 44/114 (38.6%); q-PCR and qRT-PCR (4 viruses) detected 81/114 (71.6%); and virus isolation detected 40/114 (35.1%). Most were positive for only one or two tests, but not all three tests. Necropsy cases had positives: 5/7 G-PCR, 5/7 q-PCR and qRT-PCR, and all were positive by cell culture. In some cases, G-PCR and both real time PCR were negative for BoHV-1, BVDV, and PI3V in samples positive by culture. PCR did not differentiate field from vaccines strains of BoHV-1, BVDV, and PI3V. However based on sequencing and analysis, field and vaccine strains of culture positive BoHV-1, BoCV, BVDV, and PI3V, 11/18 (61.1%) of BoHV-1 isolates, 6/17 (35.3%) BVDV isolates, and 1/10 (10.0%) PI3V identified as vaccine. BRSV was only identified by PCR testing. Interpretation of laboratory tests is appropriate as molecular based tests and virus isolation cannot separate field from vaccine strains. Additional testing using sequencing appears appropriate for identifying vaccine strains.


pmid: 27481815
title: Interaction of bovine viral diarrhea virus with bovine cumulus-oocyte complex during IVM: Detection in permissive cells
abstract: Structural changes in the zona pellucida (ZP) of bovine oocytes seem to modulate their interaction with various viral agents, facilitating the viral infection in in vitro production systems. To evaluate the susceptibility of bovine oocytes to noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus (ncp-BVDV), cumulus-oocyte complexes were exposed to 10(7) ​tissue culture-infective doses (TCID50)/mL of an ncp-BVDV strain during IVM (in vitro maturation). After that, cumulus cells and the ZP were removed by hyaluronidase and pronase treatment, respectively, and the percentages of oocytes with polar body were analyzed as a sign of nuclear maturation. After passage through cell culture, the virus was isolated from granulosa cells, ZP-free mature oocytes, and ZP-intact mature oocytes. These results were confirmed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. After consecutive washes, the virus remained associated with ZP-free oocytes, maintaining its replication and infectivity in permissive cells. Based on these findings, it is concluded that the classical viral isolation procedure has a predictive value to detect BVDV associated with ZP-free oocytes and that it was novelty demonstrated that both washing and trypsin treatment of oocytes were ineffective to remove BVDV infection.


pmid: 18032507
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus core is an intrinsically disordered protein that binds RNA
abstract: Pestiviruses, including bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), are important animal pathogens and close relatives of hepatitis C virus. Pestivirus particles are composed of an RNA genome, a host-derived lipid envelope, and four virion-encoded structural proteins, core (C), E(rns), E1, and E2. Core is a small, highly basic polypeptide that is processed by three enzymatic cleavages before its incorporation into virions. Little is known about its biological properties or its role in virion assembly and structure. We have purified BVDV core protein and characterized it biochemically. We have determined that the processed form of core lacks significant secondary structure and is instead intrinsically disordered. Consistent with its highly basic sequence, we observed that core binds to RNA, although with low affinity and little discernible specificity. We found that BVDV core protein was able to functionally replace the nonspecific RNA binding and condensing region of an unrelated viral capsid protein. Together these results suggest that the in vitro properties of core may reflect its mechanism of action in RNA packaging and virion morphogenesis.


pmid: 2802333
title: Interaction between Pasteurella haemolytica, sulfadiazine/trimethoprim, and bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: A study was designed to develop and define a sc tissue chamber as a suitable device for establishing a soft-tissue infection model in cattle and to use this model to study the interaction between Pasteurella haemolytica, sulfadiazine/trimethoprim, and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Thermoplastic tissue chambers were implanted in the paralumbar fossae of 20 calves. At 35 days after implantation, calves were allotted to 4 groups of equal size and the calves in 2 groups were inoculated intratracheally with a New York-1 strain of BVDV. At 45 days after implantation, all chambers were inoculated with a 6-hour culture of P haemolytica serotype 1. Starting 36 hours after bacterial inoculation, sulfadiazine/trimethoprim was administered IV once a day to half of the virus-inoculated calves and to half of those calves that had not been exposed to virus. Inoculation of P haemolytica into tissue chambers resulted in the establishment of a localized soft-tissue infection, characteristic of pneumonic pasteurellosis. Despite the maintenance of chamber antimicrobial concentrations that exceeded minimal bactericidal concentrations established in vitro, the infections were not sterilized. This lack of efficacy was associated with decreased pH and increased protein concentrations in chamber fluids after inoculation. Infection with BVDV, which is thought to depress host defenses, had no effect on the response of P haemolytica to sulfadiazine/trimethoprim administration. Observation of responsive antibody titers, bacterial phagocytosis, and high leukocyte viability within P haemolytica-infected chambers documented functional host defenses within tissue chambers.


pmid: 31388019
title: Exploring the longitudinal dynamics of herd BVD antibody test results using model-based clustering
abstract: Determining the Bovine Viral Diarrhoea (BVD) infection status of cattle herds is a challenge for control and eradication schemes. Given the changing dynamics of BVD virus (BVDV) antibody responses in cattle, classifying herds based on longitudinal changes in the results of BVDV antibody tests could offer a novel, complementary approach to categorising herds that is less likely than the present system to result in a herd's status changing from year to year, as it is more likely to capture the true exposure dynamics of the farms. This paper describes the dynamics of BVDV antibody test values (measured as percentage positivity (PP)) obtained from 15,500 bovines between 2007 and 2010 from thirty nine cattle herds located in Scotland and Northern England. It explores approaches of classifying herds based on trend, magnitude and shape of their antibody PP trajectories and investigates the epidemiological similarities between farms within the same cluster. Gaussian mixture models were used for the magnitude and shape clustering. Epidemiologically meaningful clusters were obtained. Farm cluster membership depends on clustering approach used. Moderate concordance was found between the shape and magnitude clusters. These methods hold potential for application to enhance control efforts for BVD and other infectious livestock diseases.


pmid: 22174836
title: Detection and identification of the atypical bovine pestiviruses in commercial foetal bovine serum batches
abstract: The recently emerging atypical bovine pestiviruses have been detected in commercial foetal bovine serum (FBS) of mainly South American origin so far. It is unclear how widely the viruses are presented in commercial FBS of different geographic origins. To further investigate the possible pestivirus contamination of commercially available FBS batches, 33 batches of FBS were obtained from ten suppliers and analysed in this study for the presence of both the recognised and the atypical bovine pestiviruses. All 33 batches of FBS were positive by real-time RT-PCR assays for at least one species of bovine pestiviruses. According to the certificate of analysis that the suppliers claimed for each batch of FBS, BVDV-1 was detected in all 11 countries and BVDV-2 was detected exclusively in the America Continent. The atypical pestiviruses were detected in 13 batches claimed to originate from five countries. Analysis of partial 5'UTR sequences showed a high similarity among these atypical bovine pestiviruses. This study has demonstrated, for the first time that commercial FBS batches of different geographic origins are contaminated not only with the recognised species BVDV-1 and BVDV-2, but also with the emerging atypical bovine pestiviruses.


pmid: 21289118
title: TRIM56 is a virus- and interferon-inducible E3 ubiquitin ligase that restricts pestivirus infection
abstract: The tripartite motif (TRIM) protein family comprises more than 60 members that have diverse functions in various biological processes. Although a small number of TRIM proteins have been shown to regulate innate immunity, much remains to be learned about the functions of the majority of the TRIM proteins. Here we identify TRIM56 as a cellular protein associated with the N-terminal protease (N(pro)) of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a pestiviral interferon antagonist which degrades interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) through the proteasome. We found that TRIM56 was constitutively expressed in most tissues, and its abundance was further upregulated moderately by interferon or virus. The manipulation of TRIM56 abundance did not affect the protein turnover of N(pro) and IRF3. Rather, ectopic expression of TRIM56 substantially impaired, while knockdown of TRIM56 expression greatly enhanced, BVDV replication in cell culture. The antiviral activity of TRIM56 depended on its E3 ubiquitin ligase activity as well as the integrity of its C-terminal region but was not attributed to a general augmentation of the interferon antiviral response. Overexpression of TRIM56 did not inhibit the replication of vesicular stomatitis virus or hepatitis C virus, a virus closely related to BVDV. Together, our data demonstrate that TRIM56 is a novel antiviral host factor that restricts pestivirus infection.


pmid: 21093884
title: Detection and phylogenetic analysis of an atypical pestivirus, strain IZSPLV_To
abstract: Recently, atypical bovine pestiviruses (BVDV-3) have been identified in batches of contaminated foetal calf serum (FCS) and in naturally infected cattle. During routine screening of FCS by conventional panpestivirus PCR assay, one batch showed traces of pestivirus nucleic acids, and the contaminating virus was typed as BVDV-3-like. Phylogenetic analysis based on three genome regions (5'UTR, N(pro) and E2) showed that this strain, named IZSPLV_To, clusters in a separate clade with CH_KaHo/cont, a cell culture contaminant detected in Switzerland. This study is the first report of the detection in Italy of a FCS batch contaminated with BVDV-3 and adds more evidence that atypical pestiviruses represent a serious cause for concern in cell culture laboratories, with potential repercussions on BVD control and vaccine biosafety. Our findings suggest that the BE/B2 primers may be able to detect BVDV-3 in a panpestivirus assay, but testing of a larger number of strains is required.


pmid: 19750742
title: Neutralizing antibody responses in preconditioned calves following vaccination for respiratory viruses
abstract: Calf preconditioning programs that include vaccinations against common respiratory pathogens are beneficial; however, optimal vaccination protocols have not been determined. In the study described here, calves were placed in a preconditioning program and assigned to one of nine vaccine regimens, each consisting of some combinations of killed or modified-live virus vaccines against bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), parainfluenza-3 (PI-3) virus, and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV). Serum virus-neutralization antibody titers were measured at four time points. At the end of the study, all vaccinated calves had higher antibody titers to BVDV, BHV-1, and PI-3 but not BRSV. Calves on a vaccine program that included at least one dose of modified-live virus vaccine had higher virus-neutralizing antibody titers against BVDV than did calves receiving only killed vaccines. Calves on a program with a combination of modified-live and killed virus vaccines had higher virus-neutralizing antibody titers to BHV-1 than did calves receiving only killed or only modified-live virus vaccine. Preconditioning programs that include vaccinations should incorporate modified-live vaccines to maximize virus-neutralizing antibodies in serum.


pmid: 11551646
title: Recombination with a cellular mRNA encoding a novel DnaJ protein results in biotype conversion in genotype 2 bovine viral diarrhea viruses
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) exist as two biotypes, cytopathic and noncytopathic, based on their ability to produce cytopathology in cultured cells. Cytopathic viruses arise from noncytopathic viruses following genetic alteration (insertions, duplications, rearrangements) within the region encoding the NS2/3 protein. In BVDV genotype 2, the majority of biotype conversions result from the integration of a cellular mRNA into the genomic RNA of a noncytopathic virus within the NS2/3 coding region. The translation of the cellular sequences during viral replication results in the proteolytic cleavage of the nonstructural protein NS2/3 to the NS2 and NS3 proteins with the appearance of the cytopathic phenotype. Here, these cellular sequences were identified as a portion of a cellular mRNA encoding a novel DnaJ protein (bDnaJ1). The 60 amino acid J-domain was identified near the C-terminus of the protein. Potential nuclear localization, farnesylation and hydrophobic transmembrane domains were also identified. Reverse transcription-PCR analysis of the expression of bDnaJ1 in bovine tissues showed that it was expressed in all tissues examined, and additionally, there may be alternate splicing of the transcript, yielding a second form of the bDnaJ1 protein. Northern blot analysis of mock and BVDV2 infected cells indicated that infection by noncytopathic BVDV2 altered the expression level of a bDnaJ1-hybridizing transcript. The increase in expression may represent a stress response to the infection by noncytopathic BVDV.


pmid: 11118368
title: Insertion of cellular NEDD8 coding sequences in a pestivirus
abstract: For the cytopathogenic (cp) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strain CP 821, a duplication of the genomic region encoding part of NS2, NS3, NS4A, and part of NS4B together with a nonviral insertion was detected. Further analyses including molecular cloning and sequencing of the putative cellular recombination partner showed that the insertion in CP 821 originated from a bovine mRNA encoding the cellular protein NEDD8, which is 58% identical to ubiquitin. To our knowledge the genome of CP 821 represents the first viral RNA with a NEDD8 coding insertion. Remarkably, the insertion site differs from that described for insertions of ubiquitin. The NEDD8 sequence allows an additional cleavage of the viral polyprotein, whereby an NS3 with an unusual N-terminus is generated. Furthermore, the CP 821-specific genomic alterations were introduced into an infectious noncytopathogenic (noncp) BVDV cDNA clone. After transfection of bovine cells with the respective RNA, a cp virus was recovered. This showed that the NEDD8 coding insertion together with the duplicated viral sequences represents the genetic basis for cytopathogenicity of CP 821. In addition to the recovered cp virus, noncp BVDV rapidly evolved after transfection. This is the first time that a change from the cp to the noncp phenotype was demonstrated in the course of replication in tissue culture cells.


pmid: 9921280
title: Antigenic characterization of Brazilian bovine viral diarrhea virus isolates by monoclonal antibodies and cross-neutralization
abstract: Nineteen Brazilian isolates of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were characterized antigenically with a panel of 19 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) (Corapi WV, Donis RO and Dubovi EJ (1990) American Journal of Veterinary Research, 55: 1388-1394). Eight isolates were further characterized by cross-neutralization using sheep monospecific antisera. Analysis of mAb binding to viral antigens by indirect immunofluorescence revealed distinct patterns of reactivity among the native viruses. Local isolates differed from the prototype Singer strain in recognition by up to 14 mAbs. Only two mAbs--one to the non-structural protein NS23/p125 and another to the envelope glycoprotein E0/gp48--recognized 100% of the isolates. No isolate was recognized by more than 14 mAbs and twelve viruses reacted with 10 or less mAbs. mAbs to the major envelope glycoprotein E2/gp53 revealed a particularly high degree of antigenic variability in this glycoprotein. Nine isolates (47.3%) reacted with three or less of 10 E2/gp53 mAbs, and one isolate was not recognized by any of these mAbs. Virus-specific antisera to eight isolates plus three standard BVDV strains raised in lambs had virus-neutralizing titers ranging from 400 to 3200 against the homologous virus. Nonetheless, many antisera showed significantly reduced neutralizing activity when tested against heterologous viruses. Up to 128-fold differences in cross-neutralization titers were observed for some pairs of viruses. When the coefficient of antigenic similarity (R) was calculated, 49 of 66 comparisons (74.24%) between viruses resulted in R values that antigenically distinguish strains. Moreover, one isolate had R value suggesting that it belongs to a distinct serologic group. The marked antigenic diversity observed among Brazilian BVDV isolates should be considered when planning diagnostic and immunization strategies.


pmid: 22174836
title: Detection and identification of the atypical bovine pestiviruses in commercial foetal bovine serum batches
abstract: The recently emerging atypical bovine pestiviruses have been detected in commercial foetal bovine serum (FBS) of mainly South American origin so far. It is unclear how widely the viruses are presented in commercial FBS of different geographic origins. To further investigate the possible pestivirus contamination of commercially available FBS batches, 33 batches of FBS were obtained from ten suppliers and analysed in this study for the presence of both the recognised and the atypical bovine pestiviruses. All 33 batches of FBS were positive by real-time RT-PCR assays for at least one species of bovine pestiviruses. According to the certificate of analysis that the suppliers claimed for each batch of FBS, BVDV-1 was detected in all 11 countries and BVDV-2 was detected exclusively in the America Continent. The atypical pestiviruses were detected in 13 batches claimed to originate from five countries. Analysis of partial 5'UTR sequences showed a high similarity among these atypical bovine pestiviruses. This study has demonstrated, for the first time that commercial FBS batches of different geographic origins are contaminated not only with the recognised species BVDV-1 and BVDV-2, but also with the emerging atypical bovine pestiviruses.


pmid: 21289118
title: TRIM56 is a virus- and interferon-inducible E3 ubiquitin ligase that restricts pestivirus infection
abstract: The tripartite motif (TRIM) protein family comprises more than 60 members that have diverse functions in various biological processes. Although a small number of TRIM proteins have been shown to regulate innate immunity, much remains to be learned about the functions of the majority of the TRIM proteins. Here we identify TRIM56 as a cellular protein associated with the N-terminal protease (N(pro)) of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a pestiviral interferon antagonist which degrades interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) through the proteasome. We found that TRIM56 was constitutively expressed in most tissues, and its abundance was further upregulated moderately by interferon or virus. The manipulation of TRIM56 abundance did not affect the protein turnover of N(pro) and IRF3. Rather, ectopic expression of TRIM56 substantially impaired, while knockdown of TRIM56 expression greatly enhanced, BVDV replication in cell culture. The antiviral activity of TRIM56 depended on its E3 ubiquitin ligase activity as well as the integrity of its C-terminal region but was not attributed to a general augmentation of the interferon antiviral response. Overexpression of TRIM56 did not inhibit the replication of vesicular stomatitis virus or hepatitis C virus, a virus closely related to BVDV. Together, our data demonstrate that TRIM56 is a novel antiviral host factor that restricts pestivirus infection.


pmid: 21093884
title: Detection and phylogenetic analysis of an atypical pestivirus, strain IZSPLV_To
abstract: Recently, atypical bovine pestiviruses (BVDV-3) have been identified in batches of contaminated foetal calf serum (FCS) and in naturally infected cattle. During routine screening of FCS by conventional panpestivirus PCR assay, one batch showed traces of pestivirus nucleic acids, and the contaminating virus was typed as BVDV-3-like. Phylogenetic analysis based on three genome regions (5'UTR, N(pro) and E2) showed that this strain, named IZSPLV_To, clusters in a separate clade with CH_KaHo/cont, a cell culture contaminant detected in Switzerland. This study is the first report of the detection in Italy of a FCS batch contaminated with BVDV-3 and adds more evidence that atypical pestiviruses represent a serious cause for concern in cell culture laboratories, with potential repercussions on BVD control and vaccine biosafety. Our findings suggest that the BE/B2 primers may be able to detect BVDV-3 in a panpestivirus assay, but testing of a larger number of strains is required.


pmid: 19750742
title: Neutralizing antibody responses in preconditioned calves following vaccination for respiratory viruses
abstract: Calf preconditioning programs that include vaccinations against common respiratory pathogens are beneficial; however, optimal vaccination protocols have not been determined. In the study described here, calves were placed in a preconditioning program and assigned to one of nine vaccine regimens, each consisting of some combinations of killed or modified-live virus vaccines against bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), parainfluenza-3 (PI-3) virus, and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV). Serum virus-neutralization antibody titers were measured at four time points. At the end of the study, all vaccinated calves had higher antibody titers to BVDV, BHV-1, and PI-3 but not BRSV. Calves on a vaccine program that included at least one dose of modified-live virus vaccine had higher virus-neutralizing antibody titers against BVDV than did calves receiving only killed vaccines. Calves on a program with a combination of modified-live and killed virus vaccines had higher virus-neutralizing antibody titers to BHV-1 than did calves receiving only killed or only modified-live virus vaccine. Preconditioning programs that include vaccinations should incorporate modified-live vaccines to maximize virus-neutralizing antibodies in serum.


pmid: 11551646
title: Recombination with a cellular mRNA encoding a novel DnaJ protein results in biotype conversion in genotype 2 bovine viral diarrhea viruses
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) exist as two biotypes, cytopathic and noncytopathic, based on their ability to produce cytopathology in cultured cells. Cytopathic viruses arise from noncytopathic viruses following genetic alteration (insertions, duplications, rearrangements) within the region encoding the NS2/3 protein. In BVDV genotype 2, the majority of biotype conversions result from the integration of a cellular mRNA into the genomic RNA of a noncytopathic virus within the NS2/3 coding region. The translation of the cellular sequences during viral replication results in the proteolytic cleavage of the nonstructural protein NS2/3 to the NS2 and NS3 proteins with the appearance of the cytopathic phenotype. Here, these cellular sequences were identified as a portion of a cellular mRNA encoding a novel DnaJ protein (bDnaJ1). The 60 amino acid J-domain was identified near the C-terminus of the protein. Potential nuclear localization, farnesylation and hydrophobic transmembrane domains were also identified. Reverse transcription-PCR analysis of the expression of bDnaJ1 in bovine tissues showed that it was expressed in all tissues examined, and additionally, there may be alternate splicing of the transcript, yielding a second form of the bDnaJ1 protein. Northern blot analysis of mock and BVDV2 infected cells indicated that infection by noncytopathic BVDV2 altered the expression level of a bDnaJ1-hybridizing transcript. The increase in expression may represent a stress response to the infection by noncytopathic BVDV.


pmid: 11118368
title: Insertion of cellular NEDD8 coding sequences in a pestivirus
abstract: For the cytopathogenic (cp) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strain CP 821, a duplication of the genomic region encoding part of NS2, NS3, NS4A, and part of NS4B together with a nonviral insertion was detected. Further analyses including molecular cloning and sequencing of the putative cellular recombination partner showed that the insertion in CP 821 originated from a bovine mRNA encoding the cellular protein NEDD8, which is 58% identical to ubiquitin. To our knowledge the genome of CP 821 represents the first viral RNA with a NEDD8 coding insertion. Remarkably, the insertion site differs from that described for insertions of ubiquitin. The NEDD8 sequence allows an additional cleavage of the viral polyprotein, whereby an NS3 with an unusual N-terminus is generated. Furthermore, the CP 821-specific genomic alterations were introduced into an infectious noncytopathogenic (noncp) BVDV cDNA clone. After transfection of bovine cells with the respective RNA, a cp virus was recovered. This showed that the NEDD8 coding insertion together with the duplicated viral sequences represents the genetic basis for cytopathogenicity of CP 821. In addition to the recovered cp virus, noncp BVDV rapidly evolved after transfection. This is the first time that a change from the cp to the noncp phenotype was demonstrated in the course of replication in tissue culture cells.


pmid: 9921280
title: Antigenic characterization of Brazilian bovine viral diarrhea virus isolates by monoclonal antibodies and cross-neutralization
abstract: Nineteen Brazilian isolates of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were characterized antigenically with a panel of 19 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) (Corapi WV, Donis RO and Dubovi EJ (1990) American Journal of Veterinary Research, 55: 1388-1394). Eight isolates were further characterized by cross-neutralization using sheep monospecific antisera. Analysis of mAb binding to viral antigens by indirect immunofluorescence revealed distinct patterns of reactivity among the native viruses. Local isolates differed from the prototype Singer strain in recognition by up to 14 mAbs. Only two mAbs--one to the non-structural protein NS23/p125 and another to the envelope glycoprotein E0/gp48--recognized 100% of the isolates. No isolate was recognized by more than 14 mAbs and twelve viruses reacted with 10 or less mAbs. mAbs to the major envelope glycoprotein E2/gp53 revealed a particularly high degree of antigenic variability in this glycoprotein. Nine isolates (47.3%) reacted with three or less of 10 E2/gp53 mAbs, and one isolate was not recognized by any of these mAbs. Virus-specific antisera to eight isolates plus three standard BVDV strains raised in lambs had virus-neutralizing titers ranging from 400 to 3200 against the homologous virus. Nonetheless, many antisera showed significantly reduced neutralizing activity when tested against heterologous viruses. Up to 128-fold differences in cross-neutralization titers were observed for some pairs of viruses. When the coefficient of antigenic similarity (R) was calculated, 49 of 66 comparisons (74.24%) between viruses resulted in R values that antigenically distinguish strains. Moreover, one isolate had R value suggesting that it belongs to a distinct serologic group. The marked antigenic diversity observed among Brazilian BVDV isolates should be considered when planning diagnostic and immunization strategies.


pmid: 9054133
title: Differentiation of classical swine fever virus from ruminant pestiviruses by reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR)
abstract: A reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay was designed to allow the differentiation of pestiviruses by the expected size of the amplified fragments. One oligonucleotide primer, conserved amongst pestiviruses, and two others specific for either classical swine fever virus (CSFV) or bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), were designed from the 5' non-coding region of the genome. CSFV infected cultures (10 strains) amplified a fragment of an expected size of 200 bp; BVDV cultures (23 strains) or border disease virus (BDV) (2 strains) amplified a fragment of an expected size of 260 bp. The specificity of the amplified fragments was confirmed by restriction enzyme analysis. The threshold of sensitivity was 100 TCID50 for CSFV and 1 TCID50 for BVDV. The RT-PCR described here provides a rapid and sensitive diagnostic tool for the detection and differentiation of CSFV from ruminant pestiviruses.


pmid: 7685192
title: Single and double polymerase chain reaction for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus in tissue culture and sera
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an ubiquitous pathogen of cattle and has been reported in other ruminants. It is also frequently present in laboratory and biological materials as an adventitious agent. This virus is difficult to detect in some specimens, especially in the presence of specific antibody and when the virus is present in low concentrations. In this paper, we describe a single polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to amplify virus sequences from infected cell culture and a nested double PCR to detect small concentrations of several virus strains in sera. Total cellular RNA was extracted from cell cultures infected with the cytopathic strain 72 and noncytopathic strain 2724 of BVDV. Ten different genomic sequences along the length of the viral RNA ranging in size from 397 to 1,016 base pairs (bp) were successfully amplified by PCR. A 404-bp probe made from amplified product from the 3' end hybridized specifically with the RNA of several BVDV strains blotted on nylon filters. Viral RNA was extracted from serum and amplified using 2 sets of degenerate nested primers designed from the 3' end of the viral genome in a double PCR protocol. Double amplification of the viral sequences greatly enhanced the sensitivity of the detection of many strains present in serum. Advantages of using double PCR over single PCR and virus isolation is discussed.


pmid: 3802830
title: Bovine virus diarrhea--clinical syndromes in dairy herds
abstract: Bovine Virus Diarrhea (BVDV) was diagnosed as the major etiological agent in 10 dairy herd disease outbreaks. The outbreaks varied between herds in time of onset in individual cattle, signs, morbidity, and clinical course. A definitive diagnosis was obtained by viral isolation from whole blood samples in each herd. Each herd problem and its clinical course was described in detail. A discussion of current knowledge pertaining to BVD--the disease and the virus--follows. The importance of strain variation relative to disease production and prophylaxis was highlighted.


pmid: 26498460
title: Herd-level prevalence and risk factors for bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in cattle in the State of Paraíba, Northeastern Brazil
abstract: Serological surveys based on a planned sampling on bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in Brazilian cattle herds are scarce. A cross-sectional study was carried out to determine herd- and animal-level seroprevalences and to identify risk factors associated with herd-level seroprevalence for BVDV infection in the State of Paraíba, Northeastern Brazil, from September 2012 to January 2013. The state was divided into three sampling strata, and for each stratum, the prevalence of herds infected with BVDV and the prevalence of seropositive animals was estimated by a two-stage sampling survey. In total, 2443 animals were sampled from 478 herds. A virus-neutralization test was used for BVDV antibody detection. A herd was considered positive when at least one seropositive animal was detected. The herd- and animal-level prevalences in the State of Paraíba were 65.5% (95% confidence interval (CI) = 61.1-69.7%) and 39.1% (95% CI = 33.1-45.6%), respectively. The frequency of seropositive animals per herd ranged from 10 to 100% (median of 50%). The risk factors identified were as follows: more than six calves aged ≤12 months (odds ratio (OR) = 3.72; 95% CI = 2.08-6.66), animal purchasing (OR = 1.66; 95% CI = 1.08-2.55), pasture rental (OR = 2.15; 95% CI = 1.35-3.55), and presence of veterinary assistance (OR = 2.04; 95% CI = 1.10-3.79). Our findings suggest that the implementation of control and prevention measures among farmers, with the aim of preventing dissemination of the agent in the herds, is necessary. Special attention should be given to addressing the identified risk factors, such as sanitary control prior to animal purchasing and to discourage the pasture rental, as well as to encourage the vaccination in the herds.


pmid: 26119170
title: Genetic characterization of bovine viral diarrhea virus strains in Beijing, China and innate immune responses of peripheral blood mononuclear cells in persistently infected dairy cattle
abstract: To acquire epidemiological data on the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and identify cattle persistently infected (PI) with this virus, 4,327 samples from Holstein dairy cows were screened over a four-year period in Beijing, China. Eighteen BVD viruses were isolated, 12 from PI cattle. Based on genetic analysis of their 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR), the 18 isolates were assigned to subgenotype BVDV-1m, 1a, 1d, 1q, and 1b. To investigate the innate immune responses in the peripheral-blood mononuclear cells of PI cattle, the expression of Toll-like receptors (TLRs), RIG-I-like receptors, interferon-α (IFN-α), IFN-β, myxovirus (influenza virus) resistance 1 (MX1), and interferon stimulatory gene 15 (ISG15) was assessed by qPCR. When compared with healthy cattle, the expression of TLR-7, IFN-α, and IFN-β mRNA was downregulated, but the expression of MX1 and ISG-15 mRNA was upregulated in PI cattle. Immunoblotting analysis revealed that the expression of interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF-3) and IRF-7 was lower in PI cattle than in healthy cattle. Thus, BVDV-1m and 1a are the predominant subgenotypes in the Beijing region, and the strains are highly divergent. Our findings also suggest that the TLR-7/IRF-7 signaling pathway plays a role in evasion of host restriction by BVDV.


pmid: 33713753
title: Ivermectin also inhibits the replication of bovine respiratory viruses (BRSV, BPIV-3, BoHV-1, BCoV and BVDV) in vitro
abstract: Bovine respiratory disease (BRD) complex is an important viral infection that causes huge economic losses in cattle herds worldwide. However, there is no directly effective antiviral drug application against respiratory viral pathogens; generally, the metaphylactic antibacterial drug applications are used for BRD. Ivermectin (IVM) is currently used as a broad-spectrum anti-parasitic agent both for veterinary and human medicine on some occasions. Moreover, since it is identified as an inhibitor for importin α/β-mediated nuclear localization signal (NLS), IVM is also reported to have antiviral potential against several RNA and DNA viruses. Since therapeutic use of IVM in COVID-19 cases has recently been postulated, the potential antiviral activity of IVM against bovine respiratory viruses including BRSV, BPIV-3, BoHV-1, BCoV and BVDV are evaluated in this study. For these purposes, virus titration assay was used to evaluate titers in viral harvest from infected cells treated with non-cytotoxic IVM concentrations (1, 2.5 and 5 μM) and compared to titers from non-treated infected cells. This study indicated that IVM inhibits the replication of BCoV, BVDV, BRSV, BPIV-3 and BoHV-1 in a dose-dependent manner in vitro as well as number of extracellular infectious virions. In addition, it was demonstrated that IVM has no clear effect on the attachment and penetration steps of the replication of the studied viruses. Finally, this study shows for the first time that IVM can inhibit infection of BRD-related viral agents namely BCoV, BPIV-3, BVDV, BRSV and BoHV-1 at the concentrations of 2.5 and 5 μM. Consequently, IVM, which is licensed for antiparasitic indications, also deserves to be evaluated as a broad-spectrum antiviral in BRD cases caused by viral pathogens.


pmid: 27065274
title: Effect of copper, manganese, and zinc supplementation on the performance, clinical signs, and mineral status of calves following exposure to bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1b and subsequent infection
abstract: Research has indicated that trace mineral (TM) supplementation may alter immune function and reduce morbidity associated with bovine respiratory disease. The objective of this experiment was to determine the influence of dietary Cu, Mn, and Zn supplementation on the performance, clinical signs, and TM balance of calves following a bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and (MH) combination respiratory pathogen challenge. Steers ( = 16; 225 ± 20 kg BW) from a single ranch were processed, weaned, and randomly pairwise assigned to either the TM-supplemented (MIN) or the control (CON) experimental treatments. The MIN calves received an additional 150 mg of Cu, 130 mg of Mn, and 320 mg of Zn daily and the CON calves received the basal diet with no additional Cu, Mn, or Zn supplementation. The basal diet contained sufficient Mn and Zn but inadequate Cu based on published nutrient requirements. After 46 d on the experimental treatments, all calves were naturally exposed to a heifer persistently infected with BVDV type 1b for 4 d and then subsequently intratracheally challenged with MH. Data were analyzed using the GLIMMIX procedure of SAS with sampling time serving as a repeated measure and calf serving as the experimental unit. The respiratory challenge was validated via increased BVDV type 1b antibody concentrations, MH whole cell and leukotoxin antibody concentrations, rectal temperatures (TEMP), and subjective clinical severity scores (CS). Calf performance ( ≥ 0.48) was not affected by TM supplementation. Mineral supplementation also did not impact the CS or TEMP of calves ( ≥ 0.53). There was a treatment × time ( < 0.001) interaction observed for liver Cu concentrations. The concentrations of Cu, Mn, Zn, and Fe within the liver; Cu, Mn, and Zn within the muscle; and Cu, Zn, and Fe within the serum were all impacted by time ( ≤ 0.03). Calves receiving the MIN treatment had greater ( < 0.01) liver Cu and Mn concentrations compared with CON calves. In contrast, serum Cu and Fe concentrations were increased ( ≤ 0.05) in CON calves compared with MIN calves. Mineral supplementation did not impact TM concentrations within the muscle ( ≥ 0.38). The supplementation of Cu, Mn, and Zn can improve the Cu and Mn status within the liver and serum of calves in response to a BVDV and MH challenge. When Cu is supplemented to calves receiving a marginally Cu-deficient diet, Cu status within the body is significantly improved.


pmid: 26709100
title: Multiplex real-time RT-PCR assay for bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1, type 2 and HoBi-like pestivirus
abstract: HoBi-like pestiviruses are emerging pestiviruses that infect cattle causing clinical forms overlapping to those induced by bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) 1 and 2. As a consequence of their widespread distribution reported in recent years, molecular tools for rapid discrimination among pestiviruses infecting cattle are needed. The aim of the present study was to develop a multiplex real-time RT-PCR assay, based on the TaqMan technology, for the rapid and unambiguous characterisation of all bovine pestiviruses, including the emerging HoBi-like strains. The assay was found to be sensitive, specific and repeatable, ensuring detection of as few as 10(0)-10(1) viral RNA copies. No cross-reactions between different pestiviral species were observed even in samples artificially contaminated with more than one pestivirus. Analysis of field samples tested positive for BVDV-1, BVDV-2 or HoBi-like virus by a nested PCR protocol revealed that the developed TaqMan assay had equal or higher sensitivity and was able to discriminate correctly the viral species in all tested samples, whereas a real-time RT-PCR assay previously developed for HoBi-like pestivirus detection showed cross-reactivity with few high-titre BVDV-2 samples.


pmid: 22067741
title: Yeast-surface expressed BVDV E2 protein induces a Th1/Th2 response in naïve T cells
abstract: Yeast species such as Saccharomyces cerevisiae are known to be potent activators of the immune system. S. cerevisiae activates the innate immune system by engaging pattern recognition receptors such as toll like receptor 2 (TLR2) and dectin-1. In the current project, we express the immunogenic envelope protein E2 of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) on the surface of S. cerevisiae. After successful expression, components of the innate and adaptive immune response induced by the recombinant S. cerevisiaein vitro were analysed to determine if expression in yeast enhances the immunogenicity of the viral protein. Recombinant S. cerevisiae stimulated production of the chemokine CXCL-8 in primary bovine macrophages, but did no stimulate production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the same cells. Additionally, bovine macrophages primed with S. cerevisiae expressing viral envelope proteins had a greater capacity for stimulating proliferation of CD4+ T-cells from BVDV-free animals compared to macrophages primed with envelope protein alone or S. cerevisiae without envelope protein expression. Heat inactivation of recombinant S. cerevisiae increased ROS production and capacity to stimulate CD4+ T-cells in macrophages but did not alter CXCL-8 release compared to the live counter-part. Additionally, heat-inactivation of recombinant S. cerevisiae induced less INFγ and IL-4 but equal amounts of IL-10 compared to live yeast T-cell cultures. Our studies demonstrate a use for S. cerevisiae as a vehicle for transporting BVDV vaccine antigen to antigen-presenting cell in order to elicit cell-mediated immunity even in naïve animals.


pmid: 9210943
title: Differentiation of pestiviruses by a hog cholera virus-specific genetic probe
abstract: A hog cholera virus (HCV)-specific genetic probe has been generated after cloning of the genomic viral RNA. This probe distinguished between HCV and the closely related bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). Furthermore, it detected a broad spectrum of HCV strains and isolates which differ in their phenotype such as virulence.


pmid: 2590156
title: [Molecular characterization of the hog cholera virus]
abstract: The molecular biology of hog cholera virus (HCV) was studied. After reverse transcription of the viral RNA the cDNA was cloned in the expression vector lambda gt11. HCV clones were identified using antibodies as a probe. Partial sequencing of one HCV-derived cDNA clone revealed a high degree of homology to a portion of the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). One goal of these studies is the preparation of defined, effective and safe vaccines against pestiviruses.


pmid: 6255903
title: Growth characteristics of two strains of bovine virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: The replication cycles of a cytopathogenic and a non-cytopathogenic strain of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) were similar in kinetics and the tendency of cell-free infectivity to exceed the titre of cell-associated, but differed in virus yield per cell. Actinomycin D enhanced the yield of the non-cytopathogenic strain and depressed that of the cytopathogenic strain.


pmid: 29545302
title: Complete Genome Sequence of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Subgenotype 2a Strain CN10.2015.821, Isolated in Piedmont, Italy
abstract: We sequenced the complete genome of noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type 2 strain CN10.2015.821. It belongs to the subgenotype 2a, and it was isolated from an immunotolerant and persistently infected calf identified during a serological investigation. The complete genome is composed of 12,273 nucleotides, organized as one open reading frame encoding 3,897 amino acids.


pmid: 20215715
title: Non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus infection inhibits differentiation of bovine neural stem/progenitor cells into astrocytes in vitro
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) causes fetal brain malformations in ruminants when the fetuses are infected transplacentally in mid-pregnancy. In both cytopathic and non-cytopatic virus infections, viral lytic infection in actively replicating cells and interruption of vascular integrity have been suggested as the pathogenesis, but functional disturbance of infected neural developing cells has been unclear. In this study, we examined the effect of infection with non-cytopathic BVDV2 on the differentiation of neural stem/precursor cells isolated from the bovine fetus. In the process of differentiation to three types of neural cells, neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes, virus infection significantly and selectively inhibited the differentiation of neural stem/precursor cells into the astrocytic lineage. This inhibition is possibly important for the pathogenesis of congenital brain malformations associated with non-cytopathic BVDV infection.


pmid: 18957659
title: Prevalence of infectious agents in free-ranging white-tailed deer in northeastern Mexico
abstract: The objectives of this study were to determine the prevalence of antibodies against brucellosis, leptospirosis, infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus, and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in northeastern Mexico. Deer (n=521) were captured from helicopter using a netgun on 15 ranches covering 62,114 ha in the states of Coahuila, Nuevo Leon, and Tamaulipas during spring 2004. The prevalence of antibodies against Leptospira, infectious bovine rhinotracheitis, BVDV, and brucellosis were 5.6, 41.1, 63.5, and 0%, respectively, indicating that white-tailed deer and cattle may share disease agents when cohabiting in northeastern Mexico.


pmid: 18775439
title: Using singular perturbations to reduce an epidemiological model: application to bovine viral diarrhoea virus within-herd spread
abstract: Studying the spread of a pathogen in a managed metapopulation such as cattle herds in a geographical region often requires to take into account both the within- and between-herd transmission dynamics. This can lead to high-dimensional metapopulation systems resulting from the coupling of several within-herd transmission models. To tackle this problem, we aim in this paper at reducing the dimension of a tractable but realistic dynamical system reproducing the within-herd spread. The context chosen to illustrate our purpose is bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) transmission in a cattle herd structured in two age classes and several epidemiological states, including two infectious states (transiently and persistently infected). Different time scales, corresponding to the epidemiological and demographic processes, are identified which allow to build a reduced model. Singular perturbation technique is used to prove that, under some non-restrictive conditions on parameter values, the behaviour of the original system is quite accurately approximated by that of the reduced system. Simulations are also performed to corroborate the approximation quality. Our study illustrates the methodological interest of using singular perturbations to reduce model complexity. It also rigorously proves the biologically intuitive assumption that transiently infected individuals can be neglected in a homogeneous population, when capturing the global dynamics of BVDV spread.


pmid: 15062479
title: Biosecurity and biocontainment of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Infection of cattle with BVDV results in a variety of clinical illnesses costly to the cattle industry worldwide. The reservoir and primary source of transmission is cattle born PI with BVDV after transplacental infection in early gestation. It is a challenge to determine with certainty whether or not BVDV is circulating among a herd of cattle. If the virus is present in a herd,then biocontainment strategies are used to eliminate the virus by testing to removing PI cattle, preventing exposure of pregnant cattle to the virus, and increasing resistance to infection using vaccination. If it is clear that the virus is not present in a herd then, biosecurity actions must be taken to prevent introducing the virus into the herd.


pmid: 12457970
title: Induction of the intrinsic apoptotic pathway in cells infected with cytopathic bovine virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: Cytopathic bovine viral diarrhoea virus (cp BVDV) induces apoptosis in bovine cell cultures. This also seems to be a prominent feature in the pathogenesis of mucosal disease. To gain an insight into the molecular pathways of the cell alterations, the involvement of different members of the apoptotic cascade was analyzed. It was shown that inhibition of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore significantly delayed the cytopathic effect without affecting virus replication. Moreover, the membrane potential (deltapsi(m)) was affected, and translocation of cytochrome c to the cytosol, overexpression of apoptotic protease-activating factor 1 and a significant increase of caspase-9 activity were demonstrated, indicating that the apoptosome is formed. We conclude that at least in vitro, infection of cells with cp BVDV leads to the activation of the intrinsic pathway of apoptosis.


pmid: 1329037
title: Secondary structure of the 5' nontranslated regions of hepatitis C virus and pestivirus genomic RNAs
abstract: The RNA genomes of human hepatitis C virus (HCV) and the animal pestiviruses responsible for bovine viral diarrhea (BVDV) and hog cholera (HChV) have relatively lengthy 5' nontranslated regions (5'NTRs) sharing short segments of conserved primary nucleotide sequence. The functions of these 5'NTRs are poorly understood. By comparative sequence analysis and thermodynamic modeling of the 5'NTRs of multiple BVDV and HChV strains, we developed models of the secondary structures of these RNAs. These pestiviral 5'NTRs are highly conserved structurally, despite substantial differences in their primary nucleotide sequences. The assignment of similar structures to conserved segments of primary nucleotide sequence present in the 5'NTR of HCV resulted in a model of the secondary structure of the HCV 5'NTR which was refined by determining sites at which synthetic HCV RNA was cleaved by double- and single-strand specific RNases. These studies indicate the existence of a large conserved stem-loop structure within the 3' 200 bases of the 5'NTRs of both HCV and pestiviruses which corresponds to the ribosomal landing pad (internal ribosomal entry site) of HCV. This structure shows little relatedness to the ribosomal landing pad of hepatitis A virus, suggesting that these functionally similar structures may have evolved independently.


pmid: 1663821
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus proteins: relatedness of p175 with p80 and p125 and evidence of glycoprotein processing
abstract: Three monoclonal antibodies, which recognized two nonoverlapping antigenic domains and were reactive to the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) p80 protein, were found to cross react with the p125 protein of both cytopathic and noncytopathic BVDVs and a molecular weight 175,000 BVDV protein (p175). Results from limited proteolysis and chemical cleavage experiments confirmed the relatedness of these three proteins. In pulse-chase experiments it was apparent that p175 was a transient protein, as it was diminished during the chase, with a half-life of about 30 min. However, both p125 and p80 were also observed in short-pulsed lysates. Furthermore, during the chase, radiolabel was not found to accumulate into p125 or p80. Rather, these two proteins were stable with half-lives greater than 2 h. A fourth nonglycosylated protein, p37, increased during the chase. Processing of several glycoproteins was evident in these experiments. A glycoprotein of molecular weight 75,000 (gp75) diminished during the chase period, while glycoproteins gp62, gp48, and gp25 appeared or increased during the chase period. In contrast, the glycoprotein gp53 was a major protein in pulse-labeled cell lysates and remained constant throughout the chase period. In further experiments two stable forms of p80 differing in intramolecular disulphide bonding were observed.


pmid: 9210926
title: Correlation of bovine viral diarrhoea virus induced cytopathic effects with expression of a biotype-specific marker
abstract: The purpose of this study was the identification antigenic differences between cytopathic (cp) and noncytopathic (ncp) bovine viral diarrhoea viruses (BVDV). Cells infected with 19 strains of each viral biotype were analyzed for reactivity with the monoclonal antibody (mab) BVD/C38. Reactivity was examined using an enzyme immunoassay on fixed infected monolayers of fetal calf kidney cells. In the majority of cases, the mab discriminated between cells infected with each of the two viral biotypes. Three reactivity patterns could be distinguished. Most cpBVDV strains yielded monolayers where 80-100% of infected cells reacted with the mab. Most of the ncpBVDV infected cells showed either no reaction, or only single cells of foci were stained. However, about one third of either cp- or ncpBVDV strains tested yielded infected monolayers where 30-50% of the cells reacted with the antibody. Cell damage other than the typical cytopathic effect might be responsible for the BVD/C38 reactivity of cells infected with BVDV. In addition, it was analyzed whether the antigenic marker associated with cpBVDV was expressed in cells infected with viral isolates from 21 animals with clinical mucosal disease. In 14 cases cpBVDV was isolated and the antigenic marker was found throughout. In seven cases ncpBVDV was cultivated and the antigenic marker was detected in four isolates.


pmid: 2832429
title: High-performance liquid chromatographic separation and immunological characterization of soluble bovine viral diarrhea virus antigen
abstract: Sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and Western blot analysis of the protein extracts from bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV, Singer strain) infected primary calf testicle cells (soluble antigen) showed the presence of four virus specific polypeptides of 105, 90, 84 and 67 kiloDaltons (kD) the 84-kD being the most abundant. Anion-exchange high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) of soluble antigen separated the virus specific polypeptides in individual peaks while the gel permeation HPLC collected all of them in a single protein aggregate peak of 290 kD. Except for the 84-kD polypeptide peak in anion-exchange HPLC, all peak fractions were found to be heterogeneous in nature having more than one polypeptide. Analysis of the antisera raised against the peaks having antigen activity showed that antisera against the 84-kD polypeptide peak did not neutralise BVDV while those against the fractions containing the 90- and 105-kD polypeptides neutralised the virus.


pmid: 17470396
title: Partitioning and inactivation of viruses by the caprylic acid precipitation followed by a terminal pasteurization in the manufacturing process of horse immunoglobulins
abstract: Caprylic acid (octanoic acid), has been used for over 50 years as a stabilizer of human albumin during pasteurization. In addition caprylic acid is of great interest, by providing the advantage of purifying mammalian immunoglobulins and clearing viruses infectivity in a single step. Exploiting these two properties, we sequentially used the caprylic acid precipitation and the pasteurization to purify horse hyperimmune globulins used in the manufacturing of Sérocytol. To evaluate the effectiveness of the process for the removal/inactivation of viruses, spiking studies were carried out for each dedicated step. Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), pseudorabies virus (PRV), encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) and minute virus of mice (MVM) were used for the virological validation. Our data show that the treatment with caprylic acid 5% (v/v) can effectively be used as well to purify or to ensure viral safety of immunoglobulins. Caprylic acid precipitation was very efficient in removing and/or inactivating enveloped viruses (PRV, BVDV) and moderately efficient against non-enveloped viruses (MVM, ECMV). However the combination with the pasteurization ensured an efficient protection against both enveloped and non-enveloped viruses. So that viruses surviving to the caprylic acid precipitation will be neutralized by pasteurization. Significant log reduction were achieved > or =9 log(10) for enveloped viruses and 4 log(10) for non-enveloped viruses, providing the evidence of a margin of viral safety achieved by our manufacturing process. Its a simple and non-expensive manufacturing process of immunoglobulins easily validated that we have adapted to a large production scale with a programmable operating system.


pmid: 17470396
title: Partitioning and inactivation of viruses by the caprylic acid precipitation followed by a terminal pasteurization in the manufacturing process of horse immunoglobulins
abstract: Caprylic acid (octanoic acid), has been used for over 50 years as a stabilizer of human albumin during pasteurization. In addition caprylic acid is of great interest, by providing the advantage of purifying mammalian immunoglobulins and clearing viruses infectivity in a single step. Exploiting these two properties, we sequentially used the caprylic acid precipitation and the pasteurization to purify horse hyperimmune globulins used in the manufacturing of Sérocytol. To evaluate the effectiveness of the process for the removal/inactivation of viruses, spiking studies were carried out for each dedicated step. Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), pseudorabies virus (PRV), encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) and minute virus of mice (MVM) were used for the virological validation. Our data show that the treatment with caprylic acid 5% (v/v) can effectively be used as well to purify or to ensure viral safety of immunoglobulins. Caprylic acid precipitation was very efficient in removing and/or inactivating enveloped viruses (PRV, BVDV) and moderately efficient against non-enveloped viruses (MVM, ECMV). However the combination with the pasteurization ensured an efficient protection against both enveloped and non-enveloped viruses. So that viruses surviving to the caprylic acid precipitation will be neutralized by pasteurization. Significant log reduction were achieved > or =9 log(10) for enveloped viruses and 4 log(10) for non-enveloped viruses, providing the evidence of a margin of viral safety achieved by our manufacturing process. Its a simple and non-expensive manufacturing process of immunoglobulins easily validated that we have adapted to a large production scale with a programmable operating system.


pmid: 16687219
title: A one-step multiplex real-time RT-PCR for detection and typing of bovine viral diarrhea viruses
abstract: A one-step multiplex real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using SmartCycler technology and TaqMan probes was developed for detection and typing of bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV). Common primers and type-specific (BVDV1 and BVDV2) TaqMan probes were designed in the 5'-untranslated region of the viral genome. The real-time assay was able to detect 10-100 TCID50 of virus, with correlation coefficient (r2) values of 0.998 and 0.999 for BVDV1 and BVDV2, respectively. The assay accurately typed 54 BVDV strains and field isolates and specificity of the TaqMan probes was further demonstrated by the lack of reactivity with the closely related Pestiviruses, classical swine fever virus and border disease virus. The assay was also shown to have high reproducibility. When the assay was compared with virus isolation for bovine serum samples, there was full agreement between the tests. Thus, the one-step real-time RT-PCR assay appears to be a rapid, sensitive, and specific test for detection and typing of BVDV.


pmid: 15460320
title: Distribution of viral antigen and tissue lesions in persistent and acute infection with the homologous strain of noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Viral distribution and lesions were compared between calves born with persistent infection (PI) and calves acutely infected with the same bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolate. Two PI calves from 1 dairy herd were necropsied. The PI viruses from these calves were isolated, characterized by sequencing, and found to be identical. This virus strain, designated BVDV2-RS886, was characterized as a noncytopathic (ncp) type 2 BVDV. To establish acute infections, BVDV2-RS886 was used to inoculate clinically healthy, seronegative calves which were 3 weeks to 3 months old. Nine calves received 10(6)-10(7) tissue culture infective dose of BVDV2-RS886 intranasally. Four additional age-matched animals served as noninfected controls. Infected calves were necropsied at 3, 6, 9, or 13 days postinoculation (dpi). Viral antigen was detected by immunohistochemistry in frozen sections, and lesions were evaluated in hematoxylin eosin-stained paraplast sections. In the PI calves, a wide distribution of viral antigen was found in all tissues and was not associated with lesions. In the acutely infected calves, viral antigen was widespread in lymphoid tissues at 6 dpi but had been mostly eliminated at 9 and 13 dpi. Depletion of lymphoid tissues was seen at 6, 9, and 13 dpi and repopulation at 9 and 13 dpi. In 1 of the calves at 13 dpi, severe arteritis was present in lymph nodes and myocardium. This comparison shows that an ncp BVDV strain that causes no lesions in PI animals is able to induce marked depletion of lymphoid tissues in calves with acute infection. Therefore, the failure to eliminate PI cattle from a herd causes problems not only in pregnant cattle but may also affect other age groups.


pmid: 15072195
title: Immunohistochemical study of Hemophilus somnus, Mycoplasma bovis, Mannheimia hemolytica, and bovine viral diarrhea virus in death losses due to myocarditis in feedlot cattle
abstract: The purpose of this study was to determine the presence of Hemophilus somnus, Mycoplasma bovis, Mannheimia hemolytica, and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in lesional tissues of feeder calves dying with myocarditis. Tissues from the heart and lungs of 92 calves dying with myocarditis in Alberta feedlots were immunohistochemically stained for the antigens of these agents. Tissues from 44 calves dying from noninfectious causes and 35 calves dying with pneumonia were tested as controls. Hemophilus somnus was found in cardiac lesions in the majority of myocarditis cases (70/92). Mycoplasma bovis was concurrently demonstrated in the hearts of 4/92 affected calves. No bacterial pathogens were found in heart tissues from the control groups of calves. Bovine viral diarrhea virus was demonstrated in the tissues of 4/92 myocarditis cases compared with those of 13/35 calves dying from pneumonia and 0/44 calves dying from noninfectious causes. The results demonstrate that H. somnus is the principle pathogen associated with myocarditis in feedlot calves and that the presence of BVDV is more common in these calves compared with calves dying of noninfectious causes. The findings also suggest that BVDV is an important pathogen in calves dying with gross postmortem lesions of pneumonia.


pmid: 11265187
title: Seroprevalence of infection with Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis, bovine leukemia virus, and bovine viral diarrhea virus in maritime Canada dairy cattle
abstract: The purpose of this study was to survey the seroprevalence of infection with the agents of production-limiting diseases in dairy cattle in New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, and Prince Edward Island. In 30 randomly selected herds per province, 30 cattle per herd were randomly selected and tested for antibodies to bovine leukemia virus (BLV) and Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (M. paratuberculosis), while 5 unvaccinated cattle over 6 months of age were tested for antibodies to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). For BLV, 20.8% (15.8% to 27.0%) of cows were positive, and 70.0% (60.3% to 79.7%) of herds had at least one positive cow. In BLV-positive herds, the average BLV prevalence was 30.9% (24.8% to 37.2%). For M. paratuberculosis, 2.6% (1.8% to 3.9%) of cows were positive, and 16.7% (8.8% to 24.5%) of herds had at least 2 M. paratuberculosis-positive cows. In M. paratuberculosis-positive herds, the average M. paratuberculosis prevalence was 8.5% (6.9% to 10.1%). For BVDV, 46.1% (35.5% to 56.7%) of herds had at least 1 BVDV-positive animal with a titer greater than or equal to 1:64.


pmid: 22648754
title: Weaning management of newly received beef calves with or without continuous exposure to a persistently infected bovine viral diarrhea virus pen mate: effects on health, performance, bovine viral diarrhea virus titers, and peripheral blood leukocytes
abstract: Exposure to animals persistently infected (PI) with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) results in immunomodulation of cohorts that may have health and growth consequences; however, effects may differ in low-risk, preconditioned (PC) vs. high-risk, auction market (AM) beef cattle. Our objective was to compare health and performance of PC or AM management systems with (PI) or without (CON) presence of a PI-BVDV pen mate using a 2 × 2 factorial arrangement. Four shipment blocks of crossbred PC steers (n = 236) from 3 ranch-origins were weaned, dewormed, vaccinated, tested for PI-BVDV, and kept on the ranch for ≥42 d. Subsequently, PC steers were transported to a stocker receiving unit (RU), weighed (251 ± 2 kg), blood sampled, stratified by d -1 BW, and assigned randomly to treatment (PCPI or PCCON) with no additional processing. Simultaneously, 4 blocks of crossbred AM calves (n = 292) were assembled from regional auction markets and transported to the RU ± 36 h from PC arrival. The AM calves were weighed (245 ± 1.3 kg), stratified by gender and d -1 BW, processed under the same regimen used for PC steers at their origin ranch except bull calves were castrated, and then assigned randomly to treatment (AMPI or AMCON). Treatment pens (0.45 ha) were arranged spatially such that PI did not have fence-line or water source contact with CON. Calves were fed identically and followed the same antibiotic treatment protocol. Daily BW gain for the entire 42-d receiving trial was greater (P < 0.001) for PC (1.2 kg) compared with AM (0.85 kg). There was an exposure effect (P = 0.002) on ADG from d 28 to 42; CON gained 1.12 kg vs. 0.90 kg BW for PI cohort. Morbidity was markedly greater (P < 0.001) in AM (70%) vs. PC (7%), resulting in (P < 0.001) an antibiotic treatment cost of $20.52 and $2.48/animal, respectively. Treatment with a third antibiotic occurred more often (P = 0.04) for PI cohort, and the percentage of chronically ill cattle was greatest (P = 0.06) for AMPI. Upon arrival, BVDV type 1a, 1b, and 2a titers were greater for PC (treatment × day, P < 0.001), and the percentage seropositive to BVDV type 1a on d 0 was 100% for PC vs. 23% in AM. Platelets increased transiently (P < 0.001) with greater platelets observed in AM (P < 0.001). Results indicate that PC calves gain faster and require fewer antibiotic treatments during the receiving period. Exposure to PI reduced BW gain from d 28 to 42, increased the number of calves treated thrice, and increased chronically ill cattle for AM.


pmid: 11285633
title: [Outbreak of bovine virus diarrhea on Dutch dairy farms induced by a bovine herpesvirus 1 marker vaccine contaminated with bovine virus diarrhea virus type 2]
abstract: On 23 February 1999, the Dutch Animal Health Service advised all Dutch veterinary practices to postpone vaccination against bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV1) immediately. The day before severe disease problems were diagnosed on four dairy farms after vaccination with the same batch of BHV1 marker vaccine. Using monoclonal antibodies, bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) type 2 was found in the vaccine batch. This paper describes an outbreak of BVDV type 2 infection caused by the use of a batch of modified live BHV1 marker vaccine contaminated with BDVD. Sources of information used were reports of farm visits, minutes of meetings, laboratory results, and oral communications from the people involved. The first symptoms of disease were observed on average six days after vaccination. Morbidity was high on 11 of the 12 farms. On five farms more than 70% of the animals became ill, while on one farm no symptoms could be detected. During the first week after vaccination, feed intake and milk production decreased. During the second week, some animals became clinically diseased having nasal discharge, fever, and diarrhoea. At the end of the second week and at the start of the third week, the number of diseased animals increased rapidly, the symptoms became more severe, and some animals died. Mortality varied among herds. Necropsy most often revealed erosions and ulcers of the mucosa of the digestive tract. In addition, degeneration of the liver, hyperaemia of the abomasum, and swollen mesenterial lymph nodes and swollen spleen were found. On 11 of the 12 farms all animals were culled between 32 and 68 days after vaccination after an agreement was reached with the manufacturer of the vaccine. This was the third outbreak of BVD in cattle after administration of a contaminated vaccine in the Netherlands. The possibilities to prevent contamination of a vaccine as a consequence of infection of fetal calf serum with BVDV are discussed. Improvement of controls to prevent contamination before and during vaccine production, and improvement of the monitoring of side-effects is necessary.


pmid: 23357089
title: Effects of vaccination against reproductive diseases on reproductive performance of lactating dairy cows submitted to AI
abstract: Four experiments evaluated the effects of vaccination against bovine herpesvirus-1 (BoHV-1), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and Leptospira spp. on reproductive performance of lactating dairy cows without (experiments 1, 2, and 3) or with previous vaccination against these diseases (experiment 4). Cows were assigned to a fixed-time AI protocol (FTAI; d -11 to 0) in all experiments, as well as AI 12 h upon estrus detection in experiment 3. Pregnancy status was determined with transrectal ultrasonography on d 30 and 71 (d 60 for experiment 3) after AI. Pregnancy loss was considered in cows pregnant on d 30 but non-pregnant on the subsequent evaluation. In experiment 1, 853 cows received (VAC) or not (CON) vaccination against BoHV-1, BVDV, and Leptospira spp. at the beginning of the FTAI (d -11) and 30 d after AI. Pregnancy loss was reduced (P = 0.03) in VAC cows compared with CON. In experiment 2, 287 cows received VAC or CON 30 d prior to (d -41) and at the beginning (d -11) of the FTAI. Pregnancy rates on d 30 and 71 were greater (P ≤ 0.03) in VAC cows compared with CON. In experiment 3, 1680 cows with more than 28 d in milk were randomly assigned to receive VAC or CON with doses administered 14 d apart, and inseminated within 15-135 d after the second dose. Pregnancy rates on d 30 and 60 were greater (P ≤ 0.02) in VAC cows compared with CON. In experiment 4, 820 cows received (REVAC) or not (CON) revaccination against BoHV-1, BVDV, and Leptospira spp. at the beginning of the FTAI protocol (d -11). Pregnancy rates and loss were similar (P ≥ 0.54) between treatments. Hence, vaccinating naïve cows against BoHV-1, BVDV, and Leptospira spp. improved reproductive efficiency in dairy production systems, particularly when both doses were administered prior to AI.


pmid: 18181015
title: Identification of new genetic subtypes of bovine viral diarrhea virus genotype 1 isolated in Japan
abstract: A part of the nucleotide sequence of the 5' untranslated region (5'UTR) and E rns region, and the genomic regions encoding for N pro, Core, and E2 of So-like isolates and IS25CP/01 strain which belong to bovine viral diarrhea virus genotype 1 (BVDV-1) were determined and genetic comparisons were made with sequences of other BVDV subgenotypes. Phylogenetic analysis using the 5'UTR and N pro revealed that So-like isolates and IS25CP/01 branched into independent phylogenetic branch. So-like isolates were clustered with Korean BVDV strains taken from DDBL/EMBL/GenBank in the 5'UTR. An additional two amino acid residues were found at the C terminal of the Core region of IS25CP/01. The similarity of amino acid sequence of E2 of So-like isolates and IS25CP/01 to the BVDV-1 reference strain NADL were 78.0-78.5 and 79.0, respectively. Cross-neutralization tests showed significant antigenic differences between So-like isolates and the others (Antigenic similarity (R) value: 2.2-8.8), and IS25CP/01 and the others (R value: 1.6-8.8). So-like viruses and IS25CP/01 differed from the thirteenth subgenotypes (1a-1m) reported by Jackova et al. (2007) and were classified as new genetic subtypes, BVDV-1n (So-like) and 1o (IS25CP/01).


pmid: 7503697
title: Identification of cell membrane proteins linked to susceptibility to bovine viral diarrhoea virus infection
abstract: Three monoclonal antibodies directed against cell surface molecules of bovine cells inhibited subsequent infections with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). They specifically blocked the infectivity of three non-cytopathogenic and three cytopathogenic BVDV strains. These results showed that an important mechanism for virus uptake was inhibited. The ligand of the monoclonal antibody BVD/CA 17, which blocked infectivity most efficiently, was found on leukocytes from a wide range of domestic and wild even-toed ungulates using flow cytometric analysis. In contrast, the monoclonal antibodies BVD/CA 26 and BVD/CA 27 appeared to be specific for bovine cells. Immunoprecipitation of labelled bovine cell surface proteins showed that the three monoclonal antibodies bound to proteins with identical relative molecular masses (M(r)). Proteins of an apparent M(r) of 93 K and 60 K were precipitated from lysates of fetal bovine kidney cells irrespectively of the MAbs used.


pmid: 1714946
title: Immunofluorescence studies of biotype-specific expression of bovine viral diarrhoea virus epitopes in infected cells
abstract: The expression of biotype-specific epitopes in cells infected with cytopathic (cp) and non-cytopathic (ncp) bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was analysed by immunofluorescence. Four monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) directed against different epitopes on the viral glycoprotein gp48 were used. With cells infected with cpBVDV strain NADL, the four MAbs yielded a strong and granular cytoplasmic fluorescence. The same pattern was observed when cells were infected with ncpBVDV 7443 with two of the MAbs (BVD/C12, BVD/C42). In contrast, reactivity with the other two MAbs (BVD/C38, BVD/C46) was restricted to a narrow perinuclear zone. These biotype-specific differences were not observed either with a gp53-specific MAb, or with an MAb specific for the non-structural protein p125/p80. Double immunofluorescence staining of living cells with a polyclonal BVDV-specific serum and with the MAbs revealed that expression of viral proteins on the surface of cells infected with cp- or ncpBVDV, respectively, was not detectable.


pmid: 6087539
title: Experimental production of fatal mucosal disease in cattle
abstract: Three outbreaks of mucosal disease were investigated. Careful examination of 47 cattle that were persistently viraemic with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) revealed no clinical disease, no or low levels of BVDV antibody and only non-cytopathic virus in their blood. The four animals with mucosal disease all showed clinical disease and both cytopathic and non-cytopathic virus in their blood. Following post mortem examination, there were particularly high levels of cytopathic virus in gut tissue. A hypothesis for the induction of mucosal disease is suggested. It states that animals become persistently infected with non-cytopathic virus following in utero infection and when, in post natal life, they become superinfected with a cytopathic virus, then mucosal disease ensues. The experimental reproduction of mucosal disease in support of this hypothesis is described.


pmid: 15615053
title: Experimental infection of calves with two strains of bovine virus diarrhoea virus: certain immunological reactions
abstract: Certain immunological responses of 4-6 month old calves experimentally inoculated with either cytopathic or non-cytopathic bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) were compared with those of uninfected control calves. The tests used to demonstrate the immunological responses were the transformation of lymphocytes by PHA mitogen, the percentage of lymphocytes with surface immunoglobulin, and the antibody titres induced by an intravenous inoculation of killed Brucella abortus. There were no significant differences between the two groups of calves and therefore, the mild experimental disease produced by BVDV did not appear to affect adversely the immunological response.


pmid: 20046608
title: Detection, characterization, and control of bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in a large commercial dairy herd
abstract: Detection, genetic characterization, and control of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) disease in a large commercial dairy herd is reported. Precolostral BVDV serum antibody was detected in 5.3% (12/226) of newborn calves before the test and removal of persistently infected (PI) animals and in 0.4% (2/450) of newborn calves after the removal of PI heifers.


pmid: 34728269
title: A lateral flow dipstick combined with reverse transcription recombinase polymerase amplification for rapid and visual detection of the BVDV and BPIV3
abstract: Bovine respiratory disease complex (BRDC) is a serious disease affecting feedlot cattle in China and likely other places worldwide. Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and bovine parainfluenza virus type 3 (BPIV3) are principally responsible for causing BRDC, and are a major strain to the industrial economy. Eradication of these viruses/disease requires swift viral identification and treatment. Hence, this study established a fast and easy procedure of BVDV and BPIV3 identification that employs reverse transcription recombinase polymerase amplification (RT-RPA) and lateral flow dipstick (LFD), and uses primers and lateral flow (LF) probe targeting the 5'-UTR gene of BVDV and phosphoprotein P gene of BPIV3, respectively. Our assay was able to successfully amplify BVDV and BPIV3 RNA within 25 min at 35 °C using RT-RPA, with products visible on the LFD within 5 min at room temperature (RT). The lowest detection limits were 50 RNA molecules for BVDV and 34 RNA molecules for BPIV3 per reaction. We also demonstrated that the established dual RT-RPA LFD assay was precise and targeted, harboring excellent potential to become an onsite molecular diagnostic tool in the detection of BVDV and BPIV3. This method can detect BVDV (Pestivirus A, B) and BPIV3, and exhibit no cross-reaction with other viruses like the classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBRV). The assay performance was further assessed with clinical samples, and demonstrated good performance in comparison to real-time RT-PCR (RT-qPCR). Moreover, the RT-RPA LFD assay was comparitively rapid and required minimal training.


pmid: 17484502
title: Serum antibodies directed against classical swine fever virus and other pestiviruses in wild boar (Sus scrofa) in the Republic of Croatia
abstract: The presence of serum antibodies directed against classical swine fever (CSF) virus and other pestiviruses among the wild boar (Sus scrofa) population in Croatia was investigated. During 2003, serum samples from 214 wild boars were collected in 10 hunting areas in the continental part of the country. The sera were examined by enzyme immunoassay (ELISA) and in the virus neutralization test (VNT). Out of 214 sera tested 111 (51.87 %) were positive by ELISA and regarding neutralising antibodies, against CSFV 75 (35.05 %) samples were positive. In the VNT with the C-strain (conventional live vaccine strain China) and the strain Uelzen were used. Samples were also tested for neutralizing antibodies against border disease virus (BDV) using the strain 137/4 and against bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) using the NADL strain. Neutralizing antibodies against the C-strain were detected in 36 sera (16.82 %), against strain Uelzen in 17 sera (7.94 %) and in 22 sera (10.28 %) against both strains. In five sera (2.33 %) neutralizing antibodies against BVDV and BDV were found.


pmid: 17388020
title: Seroprevalence of selected viral and bacterial pathogens in free-ranging European bison from the Białowieza Primeval Forest (Poland)
abstract: Blood was collected from bison that were selected between 1991 and 2001 for poor body condition, cachexia, lameness and balanoposthitis. Sera were tested for antibodies to bovine herpes virus type 1 (BHV-1), bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV), parainfluenza virus type 3 (PI-3), Brucella abortus, Chlamydophila abortus, Coxiella burnetti, and Leptospira interrogans. The results of serological tests showed a prevalence of low titers of a serological reaction to Chlamydophila abortus (45.1%), bovine viral diarrhoea virus (29.5%), Leptospira interrogans (21.3%) and parainfluenza virus type 3 (13.9%). There were differences in the prevalence of antibodies to Ch. abortus between female and male bison. Futhermore, a relationship between age and antibodies to BVDV was observed in older bison. These results suggest that there is some transmission of bacterial and viral pathogens occurring between domestic and wild ruminants grazing in the same pastures in the peripherial areas of Bialowieza Primeval Forest.


pmid: 12770546
title: Economic impact of BVDV infection in dairies
abstract: The detrimental effects of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infections include reduced milk production, reduced reproductive performance, growth retardation, increased occurrence of other diseases, unthriftiness, early culling and increased mortality among young stock. These losses have been documented in several case descriptions and to some extent quantified in epidemiological studies. The detrimental effects together with information on population structure, incidence of infection and monetary value of production losses have been included in different models for estimating economic losses and benefits of different control strategies. This paper reviews different studies and methods for estimating economic losses and the economic effect of control strategies on both the local herd level and the national herd level. The estimated losses in individual herd outbreaks have varied from a few thousand up to $100000. There seems to be no universal truth for determining most optimal strategy at the herd level as it depends on herd-specific conditions. Most estimations of the losses at the national level range between 10 and 40 million $ per million calvings. In the few countries that have introduced eradication campaigns, the programmes have been shown to be cost effective. However, selection of a control strategy should always rely on thorough epidemiological investigations conducted under the same conditions in which the programme is going to be applied.


pmid: 12383635
title: Failure of foetal protection after vaccination against an experimental infection with bovine virus diarrhea virus
abstract: A protocol is described to measure the protection of the bovine fetus against an experimental bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection after vaccination. Two inactivated experimental vaccines were applied twice with a 3 week interval. A mixture of three different Dutch field strains was used as challenge on mainly the 82nd day of gestation to vaccinated and unvaccinated control animals. The challenge was applied 5 months after completion of the two-fold vaccinations. All calves born from unvaccinated control animals were persistently infected. The calves born from dams vaccinated with the two different inactivated BVDV vaccines were persistently infected in 78 and 60%, respectively.


pmid: 9631529
title: Persistently infected cattle stabilise bovine viral diarrhea virus leading to herd specific strains
abstract: Animals persistently infected with BVDV are important in the epizootiology of the Bovine Viral Diarrhea (BVD) because they are a permanent source of contamination within a herd. These animals produce large quantities of virus and have, therefore, been proposed as responsible for generating antigenic variability. However, limited studies have failed to detect antigenic or genetic changes in viruses isolated at different time from persistently infected animals. One hypothesis to account for this stability is that the immunotolerance is accompanied by a selection against antigenic change. The presence of an immunotolerant persistently infected (IPI) animal in a herd would in turn lead to herd specific strains. To verify this hypothesis, we compared 17 BVDV strains isolated from IPI animals from 3 herds of Eastern Belgium. The comparison was based on the sequence of a 389 bp fragment of E2--a gene encoding for a highly variable glycoprotein. Sequences were strongly conserved within herds but were quite different between herds, indicating that BVDV herd-specific strains do exist and are associated with the presence of IPI animals.


pmid: 20656535
title: Description of the first acute bovine diarrhea virus-2 outbreak in Israel
abstract: This is the first report of an acute and fatal outbreak of bovine diarrhea virus (BVDV)-2 infection in Israel. The clinical presentation varied with the age of the affected animals with a bovine-respiratory-complex-like syndrome in young stock, and diarrhea and dysentery only in the lactating stock. Enteritis first appeared in one shed of post-parturient cows; it spread for 6 weeks, until at least 30% of the lactating stock contracted enteritis or dysentery. At the same time, dairy calves aged 10-90 days exhibited severe respiratory disease. Of 79 animals that died, 13/350 (3.7%) were adult lactating cows, and 66/1100 (6%) were young feedlot calves. Phylogenetic analysis of the isolated virus revealed a 95% identity with the corresponding genome parts of various BVDV type 2 sequences. The route of introduction of BVDV-2 into Israel could not be elucidated.


pmid: 35349125
title: Temporal analysis of bovine pestivirus diversity in Brazil
abstract: In this study, phylogenetic and evolutionary analyses of cattle pestiviruses (BVDV-1, 2 and HoBiPeV) originating in Brazil were used to investigate the temporal diversification of subgenotypes in the country. Inferred dated phylogeny and time of the most recent common ancestor (tMRCA) demonstrated that some BVDV subgenotypes (1a, 1b, 1d, 1e, and 2b) and HoBi-like sequences clustered according to the region in which they were collected and that the diversification of subgenotypes appears to have occurred around the introduction of first Bos taurus and then Bos indicus, followed by expansion to form the adapted Brazilian breeds. The present results help to elucidate the temporal facts that led to diversification of ruminant pestiviruses in cattle in Brazil.


pmid: 19540607
title: Simulation of the K-function in the analysis of spatial clustering for non-randomly distributed locations--exemplified by bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection in Denmark
abstract: The K-function is often used to detect spatial clustering in spatial point processes, e.g. clustering of infected herds. Clustering is identified by testing the observed K-function for complete spatial randomness modelled, e.g. by a homogeneous Poisson process. The approach provides information about spatial clustering as well as the scale of distances of clustering. However, there are several problems related to applying the K-function, e.g. estimation of the size of the study area and the assumption about modelling spatial random distribution of the events by, e.g. a homogeneous Poisson process. The objective of the present study was to develop a null hypothesis version of the K-function that overcomes the assumption about a specific underlying spatial distribution characterising complete spatial randomness. Furthermore, the objective was to develop an approach that does not include the estimation of the size of the study area. The paper presents a simulation procedure to derive the null hypothesis version of the K-function. The null hypothesis version of the K-function is simulated by random sampling of N(+) locations from the distribution of N observed locations (infected (N(+)) and non-infected (N-N(+))). The differences between the empirical and the estimated null-hypothesis version of the K-function are plotted together with the 95% simulation envelopes versus the distance, h. In this way we test if the spatial distribution of the infected herds differs from the spatial distribution of the herd locations in general. The approach also overcomes edge effects and problems with complex shapes of the study region. An application to bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection in Denmark is described.


pmid: 18551779
title: Seroprevalence of bovine respiratory viruses in North-Western Turkey
abstract: Bovine respiratory disease complex is a very important health problem around the world. Present study describes serological distribution of bovine major respiratory viruses in non-vaccinated cattle population of Marmara region in north-western Turkey. Neutralising antibodies specific to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), bovine parainfluenza virus 3 (PI-3), bovine adenovirus serotype 1 (BAV-1) and serotype 3 (BAV-3) were investigated. Among 584 serum samples collected from 39 establishments in 7 provinces, 41.4% were positive for BVDV, 17.1% for BHV-1, 73.0% for BRSV, 43.0% for PI-3, 89.5% for BAV-1 and 92.3% for BAV-3. There were significant differences observed between seroprevalence rates detected in neighbouring provinces. Serological prevalence of BVDV, BHV-1 and BRSV were extremely higher in large capacity dairy farms than of small capacity farms (p<0.0001). This study demonstrates that herd capacity is a very important risk factor for respiratory viruses and, on the other hand bovine adenoviruses and BRSV are the common reason of respiratory diseases in the region.


pmid: 12296401
title: A comparison of polymerase chain reaction with and without RNA extraction and virus isolation for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus in young calves
abstract: Previously, the authors described a multiplex reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay for detection and typing of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) from blood of persistently infected (PI) cattle that could be used with or without RNA extraction. In the present study, the PCR assay was evaluated for its ability to detect BVDV in young calves as a screening tool for detection of persistent infections. Both methods, PCR after RNA extraction (rPCR) and the direct method without RNA extraction (dPCR) were applied and compared with virus isolation (VI) with diagnostic specimens. From 450 whole blood samples from Ontario calves, 47 and 39 samples were positive by rPCR and VI, respectively. From the 47 samples positive by rPCR, 45 (96%) also were positive by dPCR when samples were tested both undiluted and diluted 1:10. In comparison to VI, the relative sensitivities of both PCR assays were 100%. Examination of the results indicates that both PCR assays can be used for screening calves for persistent infection with BVDV.


pmid: 8388887
title: Detection of hog cholera virus and differentiation from other pestiviruses by polymerase chain reaction
abstract: Reverse transcription coupled with the polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used for the detection and differentiation of pestiviruses. For this purpose, one primer pair was selected from a highly conserved region of the genome of pestiviruses. Using these primers (PEST 1-PEST 2), DNA fragments of between 72 and 74 bp could be amplified from all pestivirus isolates tested. In order to differentiate hog cholera virus (HCV) from bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and border disease virus (BDV), we selected a primer pair from a conserved region in the genome of HCV strains that differed from that sequenced in the genome of BVDV strains. By using these primers (HCV 1-HCV 2), a DNA fragment of 478 bp could be specifically amplified from HCV isolates. By these means, viral RNA was detected in extracts of lymph node, spleen, tonsil, and lung. Such extracts were used directly for RT-PCR without prior RNA isolation. We also performed multiplex PCR by using both the PEST 1-PEST 2 and HCV 1-HCV 2 primer pairs in a single reaction. This allowed the differentiation of HCV from BVDV and BDV in one step. To assess the sensitivity of the method, RT-PCR was compared with virus propagation in tissue culture and subsequent detection by immunofluorescence staining. The results show that RT-PCR is useful for the rapid detection and differentiation of pestiviruses.


pmid: 6285781
title: Prevalence of bovine herpesvirus-1, bovine oral diarrhea, parainfluenza-3, bovine adenoviruses-3 and -7, and goat respiratory syncytial viral antibodies in goats
abstract: Sera from healthy goats were collected during October 1979 through October 1980. These sera were tested for bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), parainfluenza-3 (PI-3) virus, bovine adenoviruses (BAV) -3 and -7, and goat respiratory syncytial virus (GRSV) antibodies by microtitration virus-neutralization test. The number of herds with seropositive goats for each virus were: 5/38 (13.2%) for BHV-1; 9/38 (23.7%) for BVDV; 8/38 (21.1%) for PI-3 virus; 1/38 (2.6%) for BAV-3; 15/38 (39.5%) for BAV-7; and 26/34 (76.5%) for GRSV. Seropositive rates for each virus for the individual goats tested were: 6/502 (1.2%) for BHV-1; 9/498 (1.8%) for BVDV; 49/458 (10.75) for PI-3 virus; 1/487 (0.025) for BAV-3; 40/448 (8.9%) for BAV-7; and 166/332 (50.0%) for GRSV.


pmid: 32627993
title: Herd-level seroprevalence of pestivirus infection in goat population in Poland
abstract: A disease survey was conducted between 2014 and 2018 in the Polish goat population to determine the seroprevalence of pestiviral infection. Blood samples from 910 goats (782 females and 128 males) were collected in 62 goat herds and tested for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection with a competitive ELISA in a serial fashion. Between 10 and 13 adult female goats were randomly selected from each herd, assuming individual-level seroprevalence of pestiviral infection in a herd of at least 30% and a level of confidence of 95%. In each herd, all males were tested. At least one seropositive goat was found in each of the 4 herds. However, in one herd, the only positive goat tested negative in serial retesting. Finally, 3 herds were consi-dered as seropositive which yielded apparent herd-level seroprevalence of 4.8% (CI 95%: 1.7%, 13.3%). After adjusting for the ELISA herd-level sensitivity and specificity, the true herd-level prevalence was 3.9% (CI 95%: 1.2%, 12.0%). No males tested positive. In 2 out of 3 seropositive herds, goats regularly shared pastures with cattle.


pmid: 34728269
title: A lateral flow dipstick combined with reverse transcription recombinase polymerase amplification for rapid and visual detection of the BVDV and BPIV3
abstract: Bovine respiratory disease complex (BRDC) is a serious disease affecting feedlot cattle in China and likely other places worldwide. Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and bovine parainfluenza virus type 3 (BPIV3) are principally responsible for causing BRDC, and are a major strain to the industrial economy. Eradication of these viruses/disease requires swift viral identification and treatment. Hence, this study established a fast and easy procedure of BVDV and BPIV3 identification that employs reverse transcription recombinase polymerase amplification (RT-RPA) and lateral flow dipstick (LFD), and uses primers and lateral flow (LF) probe targeting the 5'-UTR gene of BVDV and phosphoprotein P gene of BPIV3, respectively. Our assay was able to successfully amplify BVDV and BPIV3 RNA within 25 min at 35 °C using RT-RPA, with products visible on the LFD within 5 min at room temperature (RT). The lowest detection limits were 50 RNA molecules for BVDV and 34 RNA molecules for BPIV3 per reaction. We also demonstrated that the established dual RT-RPA LFD assay was precise and targeted, harboring excellent potential to become an onsite molecular diagnostic tool in the detection of BVDV and BPIV3. This method can detect BVDV (Pestivirus A, B) and BPIV3, and exhibit no cross-reaction with other viruses like the classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBRV). The assay performance was further assessed with clinical samples, and demonstrated good performance in comparison to real-time RT-PCR (RT-qPCR). Moreover, the RT-RPA LFD assay was comparitively rapid and required minimal training.


pmid: 17235141
title: Production effects of pathogens causing bovine leukosis, bovine viral diarrhea, paratuberculosis, and neosporosis
abstract: The primary purpose of this research was to determine associations among seropositivity for bovine leukemia virus (BLV), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis (MAP), and Neospora caninum (NC) and each of 3 outcome variables (305-d milk, fat, and protein production) in Canadian dairy cattle. Serum samples from up to 30 randomly selected cows from 342 herds on monthly milk testing were tested for antibodies against BLV (IDEXX ELISA; IDEXX Corporation, Westbrook, ME), MAP (IDEXX or Biocor ELISA; Biocor Animal Health, Inc., Omaha, NE), and NC (IDEXX or Biovet ELISA; Biovet Inc., St. Hyacinthe, Quebec, Canada). Up to 5 unvaccinated cattle over 6 mo of age were tested for virus-neutralizing antibodies to the Singer strain of type 1 BVDV. Dairy Herd Improvement records were obtained electronically for all sampled cows. Linear mixed models with herd and cow as random variables were fit, with significant restricted maximum likelihood estimates of outcome effects being obtained, while controlling for potential confounding variables. Bovine leukemia virus seropositivity was not associated with 305-d milk, 305-d fat, or 305-d protein production. Cows in BVDV-seropositive herds (at least one unvaccinated animal with a titer > or =1:64) had reductions in 305-d milk, fat, and protein of 368, 10.2, and 9.5 kg, respectively, compared with cows in BVDV-seronegative herds. Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis seropositivity was associated with lower 305-d milk of 212 kg in 4+-lactation cows compared with MAP-seronegative 4+-lactation cows. Neospora caninum seropositivity in primiparous cows was associated with lower 305-d milk, fat, and protein of 158, 5.5, and 3.3 kg, respectively, compared with NC-seronegative primiparous cows. There were no interactions among seropositivity for any of the pathogens and their effects on any of the outcomes examined, although the low MAP seroprevalence limited this analysis. Results from this research will contribute to understanding the economic impacts of these pathogens and justify their control.


pmid: 17039453
title: Use of a modified-live vaccine to prevent persistent testicular infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: A commercial vaccine containing modified-live bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV; types 1 and 2) was administered to one group of 22 peripubertal bulls 28 days before intranasal inoculation with a type 1 strain of BVDV. A second group of 23 peripubertal bulls did not receive the modified-live BVDV vaccine before intranasal inoculation. Ten of 23 unvaccinated bulls--but none of the vaccinated bulls--developed a persistent testicular infection as determined by immunohistochemistry and polymerase chain reaction. Results of this study indicate that administration of a modified-live vaccine containing BVDV can prevent persistent testicular infection if peripubertal bulls are vaccinated before viral exposure.


pmid: 32580423
title: Prolonged Detection of Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus Infection in the Semen of Bulls
abstract: Infection of bulls with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) can result in the development of virus persistence, confined to the reproductive tract. These bulls develop a normal immune response with high neutralizing antibody titres. However, BVDV can be excreted in the semen for a prolonged period. Although relatively rare, in this study we describe six separate cases in bulls being prepared for admission to artificial breeding centres. Semen samples were tested in a pan-Pestivirus-reactive real-time PCR assay and viral RNA was detected in semen from five of the bulls for three to eight months after infection. In one bull, virus was detected at low levels for more than five years. This bull was found to have one small testis. When slaughtered, virus was only detected in the abnormal testis. The low levels of BVDV in the semen of these bulls were only intermittently detected by virus isolation in cell culture. This virus-contaminated semen presents a biosecurity risk and confirms the need to screen all batches of semen from bulls that have been previously infected with BVDV. The use of real-time PCR is recommended as the preferred laboratory assay for this purpose.


pmid: 28386029
title: Analysis of bovine viral diarrhoea virus: Biobank and sequence database to support eradication in Scotland
abstract: Samples from bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV)-positive cattle were gathered by Scottish diagnostic laboratories and used to produce a Biobank of samples with associated location and identification data in support of the Scottish BVDV eradication scheme. The samples were subject to direct amplification and sequencing of the 5'-untranslated region (5'-UTR) to define the viral types and subtypes present. From 2693 samples collected prior to 2016, approximately 2300 sequences were obtained, representing 8 BVDV type 1 subtypes. No BVDV type 2 samples were detected. The samples came from all regions of the UK but 66 per cent were from Scotland. Analysis of the sequences showed great diversity in the 5'-UTR, with 1206 different sequences. Many samples carried virus with identical 5'-UTR sequences; often from single locations, but there were also examples of the same sequence being obtained from samples at several different locations. This work provides a resource that can be used to analyse the movement of BVDV strains both within Scotland and between Scotland and other nations, particularly in the latter stages of the Scottish eradication programme, and so inform the advice available to both livestock keepers and policymakers.


pmid: 27523739
title: Efficacy of Suvaxyn CSF Marker (CP7_E2alf) in the presence of pre-existing antibodies against Bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1
abstract: Classical swine fever (CSF) is still one of the most important viral diseases of pigs worldwide and outbreaks are notifiable to the OIE. The different control options also include (emergency) vaccination, preferably with a vaccine that allows differentiation of infected from vaccinated animals (DIVA principle). Recently, the chimeric pestivirus "CP7_E2alf" (Suvaxyn® CSF Marker, Zoetis) was licensed as live attenuated marker vaccine by the European Medicines Agency (EMA). In the context of risk assessments for an emergency vaccination scenario, the question has been raised whether pre-existing anti-pestivirus antibodies, especially against the vaccine backbone Bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 (BVDV-1), would interfere with "CP7_E2alf" vaccination and the accompanying DIVA diagnostics. To answer this question, a vaccination-challenge-trial was conducted with Suvaxyn® CSF Marker and the "gold-standard" of live-modified CSF vaccines C-strain (RIEMSER® Schweinepestvakzine) as comparator. Pre-existing antibodies against BVDV-1 were provoked in a subset of animals through intramuscular inoculation of a recent field isolate from Germany (two injections with an interval of 2weeks). Twenty-seven days after the first injection, intramuscular vaccination of pre-exposed and naïve animals with either "CP7_E2alf" or C-strain "Riems" was performed. Seven days later, all vaccinated animals and two additional controls were oro-nasally challenged with highly virulent CSF virus (CSFV) strain Koslov. It was demonstrated that pre-existing BVDV-1 antibodies do not impact on the efficacy of live attenuated vaccines against CSF. Both C-strain "Riems" and marker vaccine "CP7_E2alf" were able to confer full protection against highly virulent challenge seven days after vaccination. However, slight interference was seen with serological DIVA diagnostics accompanying the vaccination with CP7_E2alf. Amended sample preparation and combination of test systems was able to resolve most cases of false positive reactions. However, in such a co-infection scenario, optimization and embedding in a well-defined surveillance strategy is clearly needed.


pmid: 25037848
title: Estimation of the probability of freedom from bovine virus diarrhoea virus in Norway using scenario tree modelling
abstract: Disease caused by Bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is notifiable in Norway. An eradication programme started in 1992. The number of herds with restrictions decreased from 2950 in 1994 to zero at the end of 2006. From 2007, the aim of the programme has been surveillance in order to document freedom from the infection. To estimate the probability of freedom from BVDV infection in the Norwegian cattle population by the end of 2011, a scenario tree model of the surveillance program during the years 2007-2011 was used. Three surveillance system components (SSCs) were included in the model: dairy, beef suckler sampled at farms (2007-2010) and beef suckler sampled at slaughterhouses (2011). The design prevalence was set to 0.2% at herd level and to 30% at within-herd level for the whole cattle population. The median probability of freedom from BVDV in Norway at the end of 2011 was 0.996; (0.995-0.997, credibility interval). The results from the scenario tree model support that the Norwegian cattle population is free from BVDV. The highest estimate of the annual sensitivity for the beef suckling SSCs originated from the surveillance at the slaughterhouses in 2011. The change to sampling at the slaughterhouse level further increased the sensitivity of the surveillance.


pmid: 10403030
title: Virus validation of pH 4-treated human immunoglobulin products produced by the Cohn fractionation process
abstract: To assess the virus reducing capacity of Cohn's cold ethanol fractionation process for the production of intravenous (IVIg) and intramuscular (IMIg) immunoglobulin products, and treatment of these products at pH 4, a validation study of virus removal and/or inactivation was performed using both lipid-enveloped viruses [human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and pseudorabies virus (PSR)], and non-lipid-enveloped viruses [(simian virus 40 (SV40) and encephalomyocarditis virus (EMC)]. For the cold ethanol fractionation process, overall reduction factors of 3.0 logs, > or = 2.6 (< 5.5) logs, 4.6 logs, 5.8 logs and > or = 2.6 (< 6.2) logs were found for HIV, BVDV, PSR, SV40 and EMC, respectively. For all tested viruses the precipitation of fraction III from fraction II + III was the most effective step. From the overall reduction factors it appears that cold ethanol fractionation, although capable of reducing viral infectivity to a significant extent, is not sufficient to meet the requirements of regulatory bodies for viral safety of immunoglobulin products. However, pH 4 treatment contributes effectively to the viral safety of the final products. Treatment at pH 4.05 and 37 degrees C for 16 h, as is applied to IVIg, yields reduction factors of > or = 8.4 logs, > or = 4.0 logs, > or = 7.1 logs, 4.8 logs and 1.4 logs for HIV, BVDV, PSR, SV40 and EMC, respectively. The effectiveness of this process step could be enhanced by extending incubation to 40 h at pH 4.25 compared to 16 h at pH 4.05. The extended incubation, as applied in the production of IMIg, yields a reduction of infectivity of SV40 by > or = 5.5 (< 8.0) logs and of EMC by > or = 4.1 (< 7.1) logs. Storage of IMIg, which is formulated as a solution, at 2-8 degrees C also contributes to virus safety. For storage periods of 8 weeks or longer, reduction factors of 2 to 6 logs were found for all viruses, except for BVDV which remained unaffected. These data indicate that the production processes for IVIg and IMIg as described here have sufficient virus reducing capacity to achieve a high margin of virus safety.


pmid: 23174768
title: Effects of vaccination against reproductive diseases on reproductive performance of beef cows submitted to fixed-timed AI in Brazilian cow-calf operations
abstract: The objectives were to assess incidence of pregnancy losses, associate this outcome with immunization programs against reproductive diseases, and evaluate the effects of vaccination against bovine herpesvirus-1 (BoHV-1), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and Leptospira spp., on reproductive efficiency of Brazilian cow-calf operations. In experiment 1, 7614 lactating Nelore cows from 18 ranches were assigned to the same estrus synchronization and fixed-time AI protocol (ESFTAI; Days -11 to 0). Pregnancy status was determined with transrectal ultrasonography on Days 30 and 120 after AI. Pregnancy loss was deemed to have occurred when cows were pregnant on Day 30 but nonpregnant on Day 120. Incidence of pregnancy loss across all ranches was 4.1%; pregnancy losses were detected (P < 0.10) in 14 ranches but not detected (P > 0.11) in four ranches. Pregnancy loss was lower (P ≤ 0.02) in ranches that vaccinated against BoHV-1, BVDV, and Leptospira spp. compared with ranches that did not vaccinate, or only vaccinated against Leptospira spp. In experiments 2 and 3, lactating Nelore cows (N = 1950 and 2793, respectively) from ranches that did not have a history of vaccinating against reproductive diseases (experiment 2), or only vaccinated against Leptospira spp. (experiment 3), were assigned to the same ESFTAI used in experiment 1. Within each ranch, cows received (VAC) or not (CON) vaccination against BoHV-1, BVDV, and Leptospira spp. at the beginning of the ESFTAI (Day -11) and 30 days after (Day 41) AI. In experiment 2, VAC cows had greater (P ≤ 0.05) pregnancy rates compared with CON on Days 30 and 120. In experiments 2 and 3, pregnancy loss was reduced (P ≤ 0.03) in primiparous VAC cows compared with CON cohorts. In experiment 4, 367 primiparous, lactating Nelore cows previously vaccinated against Leptospira spp. were assigned to the same ESFTAI used in experiment 1. Cows received VAC, or the same vaccine 30 days before (Day -41) and at the beginning (Day -11) of the ESFTAI (PREVAC). Pregnancy rates on Days 30 and 120 were greater (P ≤ 0.05) in PREVAC cows compared with VAC cows. In conclusion, pregnancy losses affected reproductive and overall efficiency of Brazilian cow-calf operations, and might be directly associated with BoHV-1, BVDV, and Leptospira spp. infections. Hence, vaccinating cows against these pathogens, particularly when both doses are administered before fixed-time AI, improved reproductive performance in Brazilian cow-calf systems.


pmid: 17544049
title: Packaged replicons of bovine viral diarrhea virus are capable of inducing a protective immune response
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) replicons with deletions within the capsid, E(RNS) or E1 encoding region were constructed and efficiently packaged with a helper cell line. High titres of packaged replicons were observed as early as 24 h after transfection, whereas no virus progeny could be detected after transfection of non-complementing cells. Infection of bovine cell cultures with rescued viruses resulted in one cycle of replication without release of infectious virus particles, and no genetic reversion of the generated viruses was detected. Packaged replicons with a deletion within the capsid-coding region were characterized in vivo in immunization and challenge trials. Following immunization of calves with the replication-deficient virus, neither virus shedding nor viremia was detected. After challenge infection with virulent BVDV, all vaccinates were completely protected from disease as measured by the absence of viremia and shedding of challenge virus, which indicated that a 'sterilizing immunity' could be induced with the generated replication-deficient packaged replicons.


pmid: 16168503
title: Selection and use of laboratory diagnostic assays in BVD control programmes
abstract: Since bovine virus diarrhoea (BVD) was recognised as a unique disease complex, many different diagnostic methods have been used to detect the BVD virus (BVDV) itself, or immunity to BVDV. Of those that have evolved along with the current demands for accurate diagnostic tests, two categories are of interest for BVD control programmes. As reference assays, virus isolation and detection of virus neutralising antibodies are both carried out using cell cultures, which are time, resource and skill demanding. Enzyme immuno-assays are better suited for screening of large series of samples, and several variants of these have been developed for detection of both antibodies and viral antigens. Of other methods adapted for rapid diagnostic use are immunohistochemistry, flow cytometry and the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Basic properties of these and other methods are reviewed, with emphasis on the need for diagnostic assays in control programmes for BVD.


pmid: 9247041
title: Macrophages and respiratory viruses
abstract: This review highlights some of the interactions between alveolar macrophages and human/swine influenza A viruses, porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV), bovine parainfluenza type-3 (PI-3) virus, bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). In influenza A infection, macrophage-cytokines are believed to mediate the typical constitutional effects and inflammation in the respiratory tract. The same cytokines possibly play a role in influenza-bacterial respiratory disease. PRRSV has a very restricted tropism for alveolar macrophages. The virus causes some secondary infections to be more severe, but this could not be related to impaired macrophage functions. Bovine RSV and PI-3 virus, on the other hand, interfere with selected macrophage functions. In addition, PI-3 virus adversely affects lymphocyte proliferation because it interferes with the accessory role of macrophages. One of the characteristic effects of BVDV on monocytes-macrophages is stimulation of prostaglandin E2 production.


pmid: 7716885
title: A double monoclonal antibody ELISA for detecting pestivirus antigen in the blood of viraemic cattle and sheep
abstract: A panel of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) has been produced to the p125/p80 non-structural polypeptide of border disease virus (BDV) and bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV). This polypeptide appears to be highly conserved among BDV and BVDV isolates and consequently the mAbs directed against it have a broad cross-reactivity with pestivirus isolates. The epitope specificities of these mAbs were determined by competitive binding and four of the mAbs with mutually exclusive epitope specificities were selected for the development of a diagnostic ELISA. Two mAbs were used to capture virus antigen prepared from the blood of infected cattle and sheep, then two different mAbs used to detect the captured antigen. This double mAb ELISA was compared to existing ELISAs which rely on polyclonal antibodies (pAbs) for detecting captured antigen. The mAb detection ELISA was more sensitive than the pAb detection ELISAs for both cattle and sheep and resulted in higher optical densities for positive samples without an increase in background readings of negative controls.


pmid: 8404524
title: Antibody prevalence of hog cholera, bovine viral diarrhoea and Aujeszky's disease virus in wild boars in northern Germany
abstract: During the hunting season 1990/1991 a total of 841 blood samples was collected from shot wild boar corresponding to about 2.11% of the total hunting bag in Lower Saxony. All the sera were screened for neutralizing antibodies (nAb) to hog cholera virus (HCV) and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) by direct neutralizing peroxidase linked antibody (NPLA) assay. For the detection of antibodies (Ab) against HCV a Complex Trapping Blocking (CTB) ELISA was used. Cytotoxic sera were retested using an indirect immunoperoxidase technique. Additionally all sera were tested for antibodies to Aujeszky's disease virus (ADV) in a commercial indirect ELISA and 722 sera for ADV nAb in a virus neutralization test (VNT) with and without the addition of guinea pig complement. Screening of 841 sera yielded six sera neutralizing HCV strain ALFORT/187 and two sera with a positive CTB-ELISA reaction. A total of seven sera not identical with the HCV seropositive sera yielded BVDV neutralizing antibodies. The majority of HCV nAb positive samples were found in a region close to the former border to the German Democratic Republic (GDR) west of the State of Sachsen-Anhalt. Screening for ADV detected five sera positive in ELISA amongst 12 sera yielding nAb against ADV. Positive samples were obtained in the regions of Brunswick, Lüneburg and Hannover.


pmid: 10732060
title: Association of bovine embryos produced by in vitro fertilization with a noncytopathic strain of bovine viral diarrhea virus type II
abstract: In the first experiment, heifers were infected experimentally with bovine viral diarrhea virus type II (BVDV-type II, strain CD87; characterized by high morbidity and mortality). Subsequently, in vitro fertilized embryos were produced from oocytes collected on Day 4, 8, and 16 post infection. In a total of 29 heifers, the infectious virus was detected in 55% of the samples of the follicular fluid, in 10% of the oviductal cells, in 10% of the uterine flushes and in 41% of the in vitro fertilized embryos. The highest number of embryos associated with the virus was detected in the group of animals slaughtered on Day 8 post infection (58%). The amount of the virus (10(1.5-2.0) TCID50/mL) associated with the washed single embryos generated from oocytes of heifers 8 and 16 d post infection was sufficient for disease transmission by intravenous inoculation to the seronegative recipients (6/15). In the second experiment, uninfected oocytes were exposed in vitro to BVDV (10(5) TCID50/mL) in the maturation medium and then fertilized and cultured prior to viral assay. Virus was detected in 4 of 7 samples containing embryos but not in samples of embryos produced from the control group of uninfected oocytes. The presence of BVDV in the IVF system did not affect embryonic development in vitro. In conclusion, it appears that BVDV-type II has the ability to be transferred with oocytes through the IVF system, resulting in infectious embryos with normal morphological appearance which may have a potential for disease transmission.


pmid: 9621090
title: The NS5A/NS5 proteins of viruses from three genera of the family flaviviridae are phosphorylated by associated serine/threonine kinases
abstract: Phosphorylation of the expressed NS5A protein of hepatitis C virus (HCV), a member of the Hepacivirus genus of the family Flaviviridae, has been demonstrated in mammalian cells and in a cell-free assay by an associated kinase activity. In this report, phosphorylation is also shown for the NS5A and NS5 proteins, respectively, of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and yellow fever virus (YF), members of the other two established genera in this family. Phosphorylation of BVDV NS5A and YF NS5 was observed in infected cells, transient expression experiments, and a cell-free assay similar to the one developed for HCV NS5A. Phosphoamino acid analyses indicated that all three proteins were phosphorylated by serine/threonine kinases. Similarities in the properties of BVDV NS5A, YF NS5, and HCV NS5A phosphorylation in vitro further suggested that closely related kinases or the same kinase may phosphorylate these viral proteins. Conservation of this trait among three quite distantly related viruses representing three separate genera suggests that phosphorylation of the NS5A/NS5 proteins or their association with cellular kinases may play an important role in the flavivirus life cycle.


pmid: 24811899
title: In vivo delivery of bovine viral diahorrea virus, E2 protein using hollow mesoporous silica nanoparticles
abstract: Our work focuses on the application of mesoporous silica nanoparticles as a combined delivery vehicle and adjuvant for vaccine applications. Here we present results using the viral protein, E2, from bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). BVDV infection occurs in the target species of cattle and sheep herds worldwide and is therefore of economic importance. E2 is a major immunogenic determinant of BVDV and is an ideal candidate for the development of a subunit based nanovaccine using mesoporous silica nanoparticles. Hollow type mesoporous silica nanoparticles with surface amino functionalisation (termed HMSA) were characterised and assessed for adsorption and desorption of E2. A codon-optimised version of the E2 protein (termed Opti-E2) was produced in Escherichia coli. HMSA (120 nm) had an adsorption capacity of 80 μg Opti-E2 per mg HMSA and once bound E2 did not dissociate from the HMSA. Immunisation studies in mice with a 20 μg dose of E2 adsorbed to 250 μg HMSA was compared to immunisation with Opti-E2 (50 μg) together with the traditional adjuvant Quillaja saponaria Molina tree saponins (QuilA, 10 μg). The humoral responses with the Opti-E2/HMSA nanovaccine although slightly lower than those obtained for the Opti-E2 + QuilA group demonstrated that HMSA particles are an effective adjuvant that stimulated E2-specific antibody responses. Importantly the cell-mediated immune responses were consistently high in all mice immunised with Opti-E2/HMSA nanovaccine formulation. Therefore we have shown the Opti-E2/HMSA nanoformulation acts as an excellent adjuvant that gives both T-helper 1 and T-helper 2 mediated responses in a small animal model. This study has provided proof-of-concept towards the development of an E2 subunit nanoparticle based vaccine.


pmid: 23665801
title: 3-Biphenylimidazo[1,2-a]pyridines or [1,2-b]pyridazines and analogues, novel Flaviviridae inhibitors
abstract: Using Ttou 84 as starting point, a novel class of biphenyl derivatives of imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine and imidazo[1,2-b]pyridazine was designed to optimize the inhibitory properties on the replication of the bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV). Three sites of pharmacomodulation were chosen i.e. positions 2, 3 and 6 on the central heterocyclic core structure. From the 49 analogues tested, only compound 18j (3-(2'-hydroxybiphen-3-yl)-2-(2-methoxyphenyl)-6-(thien-3-yl)imidazo[1,2-b]pyridazine) showed antiviral activity in the HCV replicon system reminiscent of selective inhibition (60-70% inhibition). Compound 4f (3-(biphen-3-yl)-2-(4-fluorophenyl)-6-phenylthioimidazo[1,2-a]pyridine) proved to be the most selective inhibitor of BVDV replication and showed no or only marginal cross-resistance with known inhibitors of pestivirus replication. The cross-resistance profile of 4f might indicate that 4f does not interact with the same binding site as BPIP, VP32947, AG110 or LZ37. From 42 analogues tested against both viruses, QSAR studies were discussed in regard to BVDV antiviral activity.


pmid: 22995577
title: Comparison of the performance of five different immunoassays to detect specific antibodies against emerging atypical bovine pestivirus
abstract: Bovine pestiviruses represent a considerably variable group. In addition to the two accepted species BVDV-1 and BVDV-2, a number of atypical bovine pestiviruses have been detected both in foetal calf sera and in field samples. The sera collected during the initial six weeks of experimental infection of calves with atypical pestivirus, BVDV-1 and a combination of both viruses have been examined by routine and new diagnostic tests to validate their robustness and sensitivity. As expected, virus neutralization tests using homologous virus were able to differentiate the two groups infected by BVDV-1 or atypical pestivirus, whereas the animals inoculated with a mixture of these two viruses had a reaction pattern very similar to the homologous virus alone. It was found that immunoassays using whole virus and polyclonal antibodies are the most robust, but all tests examined were able to detect antibodies also from cattle infected with atypical pestivirus a few weeks after infection. The detection, however, was at a lower level and slightly delayed. Statistical validation of the threshold suggested by the manufacturer showed that in some cases the reduction of the cut-off values would improve the test sensitivity.


pmid: 11407016
title: [Expression and characterization of 2 bovine viral diarrhea virus structural proteins (]BVDV)]
abstract: The BVDV glycoproteins gp48 and gp53 were expressed in the baculovirus eukaryotic system. Both recombinant proteins were recognized in western blot analysis by monoclonal antibodies and polyclonal serum. Immunofluorescent test demonstrated that gp53 was localized on the cell surface whereas gp48 was in the cytoplasm. The expressed proteins were extracted by non-denaturing detergent treatment. Rabbit antiserum raised against gp53 recombinant protein efficiently neutralized the virus. These results demonstrate that the recombinant proteins have immunological properties similar to those of the native viral protein and that they can be useful as diagnostic reagents.


pmid: 11136796
title: Single-tube single-enzyme reverse transcriptase PCR assay for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus in pooled bovine serum
abstract: A reverse transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR) was developed for use as a diagnostic screening test for the detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in pooled bovine serum samples. Individual serum samples from 60 dairy cattle herds located in Pennsylvania were evaluated by the microplate virus isolation method, and pooled sera were analyzed by RT-PCR. RT-PCR was sensitive and specific and detected a single viremic serum sample in up to 100 pooled serum samples. RT-PCR analysis of pooled sera provides a rapid and cost-effective method for the screening of cattle herds for the presence of animals persistently infected with BVDV.


pmid: 9188613
title: Serine protease of pestiviruses: determination of cleavage sites
abstract: The single-stranded genomic RNA of pestiviruses is of positive polarity and encompasses one large open reading frame of about 4,000 codons. The resulting polyprotein is processed co- and posttranslationally by virus-encoded and host cell proteases to give rise to the mature viral proteins. A serine protease residing in the nonstructural (NS) protein NS3 (p80) has been shown to be essential for the release of the NS proteins located downstream of NS3. In this report the NS3 serine protease-dependent cleavage sites for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strain CP7 are described. Proteins used for analysis were generated in Escherichia coli or in eukaryotic cells by the use of the T7 vaccinia virus system. The N termini of NS4A, NS4B, NS5A, and NS5B were determined by protein sequencing. Analysis of the data obtained showed that leucine at P1 is the only position conserved for all cleavage sites. At P1' alanine is found at the NS4A-NS4B site, whereas serine resides at this position at the NS3-NS4A, NS4B-NS5A, and NS5A-NS5B cleavage sites. For all cleavage sites the amino acids found at P1 and P1' are conserved for different genotypes of pestiviruses, despite the high degree of sequence variation found between these viruses. It is therefore assumed that the cleavage sites determined for BVDV CP7 are representative of those for all pestiviruses.


pmid: 9229724
title: [Seroprevalence of viral infections in llamas (Lama glama) in the Republic of Argentina]
abstract: This study reports the seroprevalence of bovine viral infections in llamas (Lama glama) in Argentina. This is the first study made in the country including 390 llamas and testing antibodies against eight viruses. Samples were collected from nine farms distributed in three different provinces: Buenos Aires, Córdoba and Jujuy. The samples were tested for antibodies against eight viruses known to infect cattle: bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BHV-1), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine adenovirus type 3 (BAdV III), bovine enterovirus (BEV), bovine rotavirus (BRV), bluetongue virus (BTV), bovine leukemia virus (BLV), and foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV). The antibody prevalences detected in llamas were: BHV-1 in 0.7% of the samples (3/390), BVDV in 2.0% (8/390), BAdV III in 5.1% (20/390), BEV in 4.6% (18/390), BRV in 87.6% (342/390). No antibodies were detected against BTV, BLV and VIAA (viral infection associated antigen) in any of the analyzed camelids.


pmid: 1331162
title: Epidemiological evaluation of a monoclonal ELISA detecting bovine viral diarrhoea pestivirus antigens in field blood samples of persistently infected cattle
abstract: An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), using monoclonal antibodies for capture and detection, was developed for detecting bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) antigens in blood samples. The test was evaluated using 761 field samples of known status (viraemic or not). When an appropriate cut-off value was chosen, the sensitivity, specificity, and predictive values of the assay were 100%, higher than the values obtained by classical virus isolation. Correlation with the latter technique exceeded 90%. The ELISA is a good candidate for replacing virus isolation as a reference method for BVDV antigen detection in persistently infected carriers. A method based on the mean of the standard deviation ratio can be used to choose the cut-off value in order to optimise reproducibility.


pmid: 2245783
title: [Epidemiologic studies of the detection of viral infection agents in calf losses in the Weser-Ems region]
abstract: In 961 calves up to an age of 6 months which were sent to the animal health center in Oldenburg between March 1987 and March 1990 for necropsy the results of determination of different viruses were calculated: BVD-, rota-, corona-, parainfluenza-3- (PI-3)-, bovine herpes-1 (BHV-1)- and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV). In 122 and 104 randomly collected health calves of 22 farms antibodies against BRSV and bovine adeno virus-types 5, 7 and 8 were determined. 50.1% of the necropsied calves were one and two weeks old. In this group in 40.2% rotavirus and in 19.0% coronavirus could be isolated. All over the calves the frequencies of isolated viruses were 13.3% for BVDV, 4.6% for BRSV, 3.2% for BHV-1, and 2.1% for PI-3. The percentages of positive findings for rota- and coronavirus increased up to 7 days after birth, and thereafter both decreased. The frequencies of BVDV and BRSV were higher in older groups. The frequency of PI-3 was low and remained constantly. Infections with rota-, corona- and with both viruses were accompanied by BVDV in 11.3, 5.3 and 14.3%, respectively. Against bovine adenoviruses and BRSV in the first 8 weeks and after 14 weeks of life in more than 70% of the calves antibodies were detected.


pmid: 3037018
title: Demonstration of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of persistently infected, clinically normal cattle
abstract: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBL) from cattle known to be persistently viraemic with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) following a foetal infection, were examined for the presence of viral antigens and cell-associated infectious virus. Using immunocytochemical techniques, physical separations of PBL subsets and virus isolation techniques (directly and by cocultivation) it was found that infection occurred in B and T lymphocytes, monocytes, and a group of cells designated null cells for lack of more specific classification. The latter three groups also supported viral replication, as infectious virus could be isolated from enriched cell populations. BVDV-like particles in cytoplasmic vesicles of PBL subsets were detected by electron microscopy.


pmid: 23681710
title: Characterization of a bovine viral diarrhea virus originated from cattle in Gansu Province, China
abstract: A bovine viral diarrhea disease virus (BVDV) GS-4 was isolated in Western China form dairy cattle with respiratory disease. Genomic comparison analysis with the 5' half genome sequence encompassing the coding region of N(pro), capsid, and envelope glycoproteins showed that the GS-4 should be classified into BVDV-1b1, which is considered as one of the predominant subgenotypes found in China. This classification was confirmed by phylogenetic analysis based on E2 coding region.


pmid: 20869990
title: Highly potent and selective inhibition of bovine viral diarrhea virus replication by γ-carboline derivatives
abstract: Several novel γ-carboline derivatives were identified as selective inhibitors of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) replication in cell cultures. Among them, 3,4,5-trimethyl-γ-carboline (SK3M4M5M) was the most active against BVDV (Nose strain) in MDBK cells, with a 50% effective concentration of 0.017±0.005μM and a selectivity index of 435. The compound inhibited viral RNA synthesis in a dose-dependent fashion. In a time of drug-addition experiment during a single viral replication cycle, SK3M4M5M lost its antiviral activity when first added at 8h or later after infection, which coincides with the onset of viral RNA synthesis. When selected γ-carboline derivatives, including SK3M4M5M, were examined for their inhibitory effect on the mutant strains resistant to some classes of nonnucleoside BVDV RNA-dependent RNA polymerase inhibitors, all of which target the top of the finger domain of the polymerase, the strains displayed cross-resistance to the γ-carboline derivatives. These results indicate that the γ-carboline derivatives may possibly target a hot spot of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. Although SK3M4M5M was highly active against BVDV, the compound proved inactive against hepatitis C virus (HCV) in HCV RNA replicon cells.


pmid: 34537341
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection: Effect on reproductive performance and milk yield in dairy herds
abstract: The impact of an outbreak of bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) on reproductive performance and milk production was investigated in 28 Spanish dairy herds using an observational study design. Mean calving to conception interval (CCI), mean number of inseminations per conception (AI/P) and mean daily milk yield were recorded from herds affected by outbreaks. Infection was confirmed by evidence of viral transmission to young stock (heifers 9-24 months) and persistently infected animals, after previous BVD-free status. Fifteen herds did not use vaccines (G1) whereas the remaining 13 received modified live BVD virus (BVDV) vaccines (G2). In G1 herds, a significant increase in CCI (13.8 days; 95% CI, 0.4-27.3 days; P = 0.050) was observed during the BVD outbreak compared to the year before the outbreak. In G2 herds, there was a not a significant increase in CCI (3.0 days; 95% CI, -1.2-7.2 days; P = 0.558). Changes in AI/P between periods were not significant in any of the herds. In G1 herds, there was an increase of 0.09 units (P > 0.05) during the outbreak, whereas in G2 herds, AI/P decreased 0.08 units (P > 0.05). Compared to milk production in the year before the BVD outbreak, there was no significant change in G1 herds throughout the study period (P > 0.05), but there were significant increases in G2 herds over the study period (P1-P2, 1.4 kg/day increase, P = 0.019; P1-P3, 2.0 kg/day increase, P = 0.007). These results indicate that BVDV infection affected reproductive performance, which is critical in maintaining dairy herd profitability.


pmid: 18243149
title: A survey of abortifacient infectious agents in livestock in Luzon, the Philippines, with emphasis on the situation in a cattle herd with abortion problems
abstract: In the Philippines, insufficient consideration has been given to the implementation of systematic control measures against major abortifacient infectious agents in livestock. To elucidate the epidemiology of abortifacient infectious agents in livestock, the prevalence of four abortifacient agents was assessed. Initially, a total of 96 cattle including 17 cows with history of abortion were examined in a herd in Luzon at the request of the farm owner. Six (35.3%) of the 17 aborting cows were found to be serologically positive for Neospora caninum (N. caninum), whereas the seroprevalence in non-aborting cows was 15.9% (10/63). Four of the 6 serologically positive aborting cows were also RT-PCR-positive for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Two (12.5%) of the 16 bulls examined were also found to be infected with BVDV, suggesting a putative risk factor of transmission via semen. Based on sequence analysis, the isolates detected belong to BVDV type 1b group. Furthermore, an epidemiological survey of abortifacient infectious agents was conducted with various species of livestock from herds located in Luzon. Out of the 105 water buffalo samples collected, 4 (3.8%) were indicated positive to N. caninum, 2 (1.9%) to Toxoplasma gondii (T. gondii) and 2 (1.9%) to Trypanosoma evansi (T. evansi). The overall seroprevalence of N. caninum in goat and sheep were 23.6% (21/89) and 26.3% (10/38), respectively. BVDV was not detected in these herds. The findings of this exploratory study indicate a relationship between infection and bovine abortion and that a lager study is required to statistically confirm this relationship.


pmid: 8407250
title: Experimental and spontaneous mucosal disease of cattle: a validation of Koch's postulates in the definition of pathogenesis
abstract: The complex etiology of mucosal disease of cattle has been unravelled by experimental reproduction of the fatal syndrome, thereby validating Koch's postulates. The causal virus, bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV), has two biotypes, noncytopathogenic and cytopathogenic; the former can infect the early bovine fetus, induce immunotolerance and a lifelong persistent viremia (pv), whereas the latter biotype can superinfect the pv cattle and induce mucosal disease. The cytopathogenic biotype appears able to originate de novo from the persisting virus by molecular rearrangement (e.g. template switching) and has been shown to arise in a case of spontaneous mucosal disease. The animal had been maintained in isolation for an extended period.


pmid: 22796482
title: Laboratory diagnosis of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The control and eventual eradication of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) have been defined as objectives to reduce the economic losses due to the presence of this virus in the cattle population. These goals could not be envisioned without the significant achievements in the diagnostic procedures employed to detect the infection in its various manifestations. The tests that are currently available are fully capable of supporting the ACVIM consensus statement for the control and eradication of BVDV. In point of fact diagnostic testing is the essential component of any control program. What is now currently lacking is full implementation of the ACVIM recommendations.


pmid: 10366562
title: Internal initiation of translation of bovine viral diarrhea virus RNA
abstract: Initiation of translation on the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) internal ribosomal entry site (IRES) was reconstituted in vitro from purified translation components to the stage of 48S ribosomal initiation complex formation. Ribosomal binding and positioning on this mRNA to form a 48S complex did not require the initiation factors eIF4A, eIF4B, or eIF4F, and translation of this mRNA was resistant to inhibition by a trans-dominant eIF4A mutant that inhibited cap-mediated initiation of translation. The BVDV IRES contains elements that are bound independently by ribosomal 40S subunits and by eukaryotic initiation factor (eIF) 3, as well as determinants that mediate direct attachment of 43S ribosomal complexes to the initiation codon.


pmid: 10337237
title: Serological survey of viral antibodies in llamas (Lama glama) in Argentina
abstract: This study analysed sera from 390 llamas (Lama glama) from nine farms located in three different Argentine provinces: Buenos Aires, Cordoba and Jujuy. The samples were tested for antibodies against 8 virus known to infect cattle: bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BHV-1), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine adenovirus (BAdV III), bovine enterovirus (BEV), bovine rotavirus (BRV), bluetongue virus (BTV), bovine leukaemia virus (BLV), and foot-and-mouth virus (FMDV) by conventional methods such as seroneutralization, immunoperoxidase staining, and agar gel immunodiffusion. The antibody prevalences detected in llamas were: BHV-1 in 0.77% (3/390), BVDV in 2.05% (8/390), BAdV III in 5.13% (20/390), BEV in 4.10% (16/390), BRV in 87.69% (342/390). No antibodies against BTV, BLV and VIAA (FMDV infection associated antigen) were detected.


pmid: 9465775
title: Diagnostic studies of abortion in Danish dairy herds
abstract: Diagnostic findings in 218 aborted bovine foetuses are reported. The materials were examined in a matched case-control study of 69 Danish dairy herds with a sudden increase in the number of abortions and a corresponding 69 control herds. Foetuses aborted during the subsequent 6-month period were examined to identify the cause of abortion if possible. A total of 186 specimens were submitted from case herds and 32 from control herds. A likely cause of abortion was diagnosed in 73 foetuses. The most common cause was bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV: 13%) followed by Neospora caninum infection (10%), mycosis (5%) and Bacillus licheniformis infection (4%). Foetal and/or placental lesions were found in a further 27 cases. Only BVDV infection and neosporosis were diagnosed in more than one foetus per herd and only protozoal associated abortions occurred significantly more frequently in the case, rather than in the control, herds.


pmid: 31134213
title: STOC Free: An Innovative Framework to Compare Probability of Freedom From Infection in Heterogeneous Control Programmes
abstract: The existence, stage of eradication and design of control programmes (CPs) for diseases that are not regulated by the EU differ between Member States. When freedom from infection is reached or being pursued, safe trade is essential to protect or reach that status. The aim of STOC free, a collaborative project between six countries, is to develop and validate a framework that enables a transparent and standardized comparison of confidence of freedom for CPs across herds, regions or countries. The framework consists of a model combined with a tool to facilitate the collection of the necessary parameters. All relevant actions taken in a CP are included in a Bayesian network model, which allows prior distributions for most parameters. In addition, frequency of occurrence and risk estimates for factors that influence either the probability of introduction or temporary misclassification leading to delayed detection of the infection are included in the model. Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is used as an example disease. Many countries have CPs in place for BVDV and although elements of the CPs are similar, biosecurity measures and testing protocols, including types of tests and testing frequency, as well as target groups, differ widely. Although the initially developed framework is based on BVDV, the aim is to make it sufficiently generic to be adaptable to CPs for other diseases and possibly other species. Thus, STOC free will result in a single general framework, adaptable to multiple disease CPs, which aims to enhance the safety of trade.


pmid: 18930168
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus infection affects the expression of proteins related to professional antigen presentation in bovine monocytes
abstract: The complete annotation of the cattle genome allows reliable protein identification by tandem mass spectrometry (MS(2)) and greatly facilitates proteomics. Previously, we reported that differential detergent fractionation (DDF) analysis of bovine monocytes reveals proteins related to antigen pattern recognition, uptake and presentation to immunocompetent lymphocytes. Here we have identified 47 bovine proteins, involved in immune function of professional antigen-presenting cells (APC) that have been significantly altered after cytopathic (cp) Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) infection. In particular, proteins related to immune responses such as cell adhesion, apoptosis, antigen uptake, processing and presentation, acute phase response proteins, MHC class I- and II-related proteins and other molecules involved in immune function of professional antigen presentation have been significantly altered after BVDV infection. Our data suggest that cp BVDV, while promoting monocyte activation and differentiation, is inhibiting their antigen presentation to immunocompetent T cells, thus resulting in the uncontrolled inflammation mediated by activated macrophages, enhanced viral spread, and impaired anti-viral defense mechanisms in the host.


pmid: 18667862
title: Improvement of virus safety of an antihemophilc factor IX by virus filtration process
abstract: Viral safety is an important prerequisite for clinical preparations of plasma-derived pharmaceuticals. One potential way to increase the safety of therapeutic biological products is the use of a virus-retentive filter. In order to increase the viral safety of human antihemophilic factor IX, particularly in regard to non-enveloped viruses, virus removal process using a polyvinylidene fluoride membrane filter (Viresolve NFP) has been optimized. The most critical factor affecting the filtration efficiency was operating pH and the optimum pH was 6 or 7. Flow rate increased with increasing operating pressure and temperature. Recovery yield in the optimized production-scale process was 96%. No substantial changes were observed in the physical and biochemical characteristics of the filtered factor IX in comparison with those before filtration. A 47-mm disk membrane filter was used to simulate the process performance of the production-scale cartridges and to test if it could remove several experimental model viruses for human pathogenic viruses, including human hepatitis A virus (HAV), porcine parvovirus (PPV), murine encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV), human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and bovine herpes virus (BHV). Nonenveloped viruses (HAV, PPV, and EMCV) as well as enveloped viruses (HIV, BVDV, and BHV) were completely removed during filtration. The log reduction factors achieved were >or=6.12 for HAV, >or=4.28 for PPV, >or=5.33 for EMCV, >or=5.51 for HIV, >or=5.17 for BVDV, and >or=5.75 for BHV. These results indicate that the virus filtration process successfully improved the viral safety of factor IX.


pmid: 18555541
title: Generation and characterization of an Npro-disrupted marker bovine viral diarrhea virus derived from a BAC cDNA
abstract: In vitro studies showed that N(pro) protein of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) interferes with cellular antiviral defense. To understand the role of N(pro) protein in successful viral invasion of the host and establishment of the lifetime persistence, an infectious N(pro)-disrupted virus with a noncytopathic (NCP) background is desired. In this study, an N(pro)-disrupted cDNA, pBSD1-N(pro)/eGFP2A, was constructed based on an infectious full-length BAC cDNA clone of NCP BVDV strain SD1, pBSD1. In this clone, whole N(pro) gene except its first 57 nucleotides (nt) was in frame substituted with an eGFP2A sequence. eGFP2A was constructed by in frame fusing a foot-and-mouth disease virus 2A protease (FMDV 2A(pro)) to C-terminus of eGFP. Intramolecular cleavage of FMDV 2A(pro) at its C-terminal glycine-proline dipeptide will release the viral nucleocapsid protein from the nascent viral polyprotein and the processed eGFP2A protein will then act as a marker protein. The resulting BAC cDNA clone was propagated stably for at least 10 passages in E. coli strain XL1-blue as determined by sequencing the progeny plasmids. The rescued virus, BSD1-N(pro)/eGFP2A, showed a peak virus titer approximately 1.2 log(10) lower and a maximum virus yield about 20 hr later than wt SD1, respectively, and was similar to wt SD1 in viral RNA replication and protein expression. FACS, fluorescent microscopy and western blotting assays confirmed that functional eGFP2A protein was expressed and processed properly in MDBK cells. In summary, the availability of BSD1-N(pro)/eGFP2A with a stable viral genome would facilitate the investigation of the role of N(pro) protein in transplacental transfer of BVDV and establishment of persistent infection in bovine fetus.


pmid: 18155368
title: The relationship between the viral RNA level and upregulation of innate immunity in spleen of cattle persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Persistent infection in cattle with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), which is classified in the genus Pestivirus, family Flaviviridae, may result in growth retardation and immunosuppression. In vitro infection with noncytopathogenic (ncp) BVDV has been shown to suppress interferon (IFN) responses, whereas ncpBVDV induces transient strong IFN responses in vivo following acute infection of naïve cattle. In this study, the innate immune response of the spleen, a crucial organ for immune system homeostasis, from PI cattle was analyzed. The transcription of five IFN- and apoptosis-related mRNAs (Mx1, iNOS, OAS-1, PKR, and TNF-alpha), which was upregulated in response to BVDV replication in our previous in vitro studies, and the level of viral RNA were quantified using real-time RT-PCR. Upregulation of Mx1, OAS-1, PKR, and TNF-alpha mRNA expression was detected in the spleens of PI cattle regardless of their age, and induction of apoptosis was also upregulated in the spleens of PI cattle compared with those of nonPI cattle. Although it cannot be excluded that the innate immune responses may be activated in response to any secondary infections in immunosuppressed cattle, the absence of any pathogenic microorganisms in the PI cattle and the statistically significant correlation between innate immune responses and the viral RNA level indicates that there may be a positive relationship between the increased level of viral RNA replication and upregulation of innate immunity in vivo.


pmid: 16153725
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus in beef cattle herds of Yucatan, Mexico: seroprevalence and risk factors
abstract: A survey of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection was carried out from June 2001 to July 2002 in a non-vaccinated beef cattle population from the livestock region of Yucatan, Mexico, to assess seroprevalence and identify risk factors related to seroprevalence. The aim was also to estimate the intra-herd correlation (r(e)) and design effect (D) of BVDV seropositivity. Cattle were selected by a two-stage cluster sampling. Blood samples were collected from 560 animals originating from 40 herds. Sera were tested for antibodies against BVDV using an indirect ELISA test. The sensitivity and specificity of the test was 97.9 and 99.7%, respectively. Risk factors regarding the herd and each animal sampled were recorded through a personal interview at the time of blood sampling. Twenty-four of the 40 herds had at least one seropositive animal. The animal true seroprevalence was estimated as 14%. The marginal logistic regression model used to describe the data found a significant (p<0.05) association of herd size-cow-origin interaction. The interaction was due to a higher risk of seropositivity in the category of herds with <or=100 animals and purchased cows (OR=1) as compared to herds with <or=100 animals and cows born in the farm (OR=0.23). Seropositivity between cows purchased and cows born in the farm was similar for herd sizes of 101-196 and >196 animals. The r(e) and D values were 0.17+/-0.05 and 3.16+/-0.57, respectively.


pmid: 15917132
title: Mapping of two antigenic domains on the NS3 protein of the pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The immunodominant NS3 (p80) protein of the pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) functions as a serine protease and a RNA helicase. To identify antigenic domains of the BVDV NS3, a panel of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) was tested against fragments of the protein expressed in E. coli. Two large overlapping NS3 fragments, A (amino acids [aa] 1-434) and B (aa 368-683) which together contain all NS3 sequences, were used to screen mAbs for reactivity. Two mAbs, 21.5.8 and 1.11.3, were reactive to fragment A (in ELISA only) and one mAb, 20.10.6, was reactive to fragment B (in ELISA and Western blotting). Further mapping demonstrated that the smallest fragment mAbs 21.5.8 and 1.11.3 bound to was comprised of aa 205-369 (domain A). In Western blotting, the smallest fragment reactive with mAb 20.10.6 was comprised of aa 368-549 (domain B). However, in indirect ELISA, mAb 20.10.6 also demonstrated high reactivity to a smaller fragment comprising aa 368-512 (domain B'). This indicated that the epitope of mAb 20.10.6 was conformational and not linear. Blocking ELISAs using these mAbs and type 1 and type 2 BVDV antisera demonstrated that an immunodominant region of the NS3 protein in cattle is defined by aa 205-549.


pmid: 24661556
title: Unbiased analysis by high throughput sequencing of the viral diversity in fetal bovine serum and trypsin used in cell culture
abstract: Fetal bovine serum (FBS) and trypsin are reagents used in cell culture and have been the source of viral contamination of pharmaceutical products. We performed high throughput sequencing (HTS) of two pools of commercial batches of FBS and three commercial batches of trypsin. Taxonomies were assigned by comparing sequences of contigs and singletons to the entire NCBI nucleic acid and protein databases. The same major viral species were evidenced between batches of a given reagent but the proportion of viral reads among total reads varied markedly between samples (from 0.002% to 22.7%). In FBS, the sequences found were mainly from bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) 1 to 3 and bovine parvovirus 3 (BPV3). The BVDV sequences derived from FBS showed only minor discrepancies with primers generally used for the screening of BVDV. Viral sequences in trypsin were mainly from porcine circovirus type 2. Other known viral sequences at lower read counts and potential new viral species (bovine parvovirus and bovine pegivirus) were evidenced. The load of some known and new viruses detected by HTS could be quantified by qPCR. Results of HTS provide a framework for evaluating the pertinence of control measures including the design of PCRs, bioassays and inactivation procedures.


pmid: 20688660
title: Antibodies to pathogenic livestock viruses in a wild vicuña (Vicugna vicugna) population in the Argentinean Andean altiplano
abstract: Serum samples from 128 wild vicuñas (Vicugna vicugna) were tested for antibodies (Ab) to rotavirus (RV), bovine parainfluenza virus 3 (BPIV-3), bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV-1), foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV), bluetongue virus (BTV), equine herpesvirus-1 (EHV-1), and influenza A virus equine (EIV). Samples were collected in Cieneguillas Province of Jujuy, in northern Argentina. Feces from 44 vicuñas were also collected to investigate RV shedding. Llamas (Lama glama) and domestic cattle (Bos taurus) from the area studied also were tested for antibodies to these viruses. Antibodies against RV (100%) and BPIV-3 (37%) were detected in the vicuñas sampled. No RV antigen was detected in any of the fecal samples tested. One vicuña was positive for Ab to BHV-1 (0.8%) and another for BVDV-1 (0.8%). The Ab prevalences detected in llamas were: 100% (16/16) for RV, 47% (8/17) for BPIV-3, 17.6% (3/17) for BHV-1, and 5.9% (1/17) for BVDV-1. However, domestic cattle had high antibody prevalences for RV and BPIV-3, 100% (13/13) and 73% (11/15), respectively, but were negative for Ab to BHV-1 and BVDV. No antibodies against FMDV, BTV, EHV-1, or EIV were detected in wild vicuñas or domestic species. Because no data of viral circulation on wild vicuñas are available, this report represents the first evidence of viral infection in wild vicuñas from the Argentinean Andean Puna.


pmid: 20580438
title: Validation of endogenous reference genes for RT-qPCR normalisation in bovine lymphoid cells (BL-3) infected with Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV)
abstract: Reverse transcription quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) is a highly sensitive tool that can be used for accurate and reliable gene expression analysis; however, careful normalisation to a set of stably expressed endogenous reference genes is essential. Expression levels of many reference genes in RT-qPCR analyses can be extremely variable under different experimental conditions, producing potentially erroneous results (Bustin, 2002). This limitation can be overcome with a systematic evaluation of candidate reference genes to determine the most stable. In the present study eight candidate reference genes were evaluated in a bovine lymphoid (BL-3) cell culture system over seven different time points in response to three different Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) strains. Data were analysed using BestKeeper (Pfaffl et al., 2004), geNorm (Vandesompele et al., 2002), and NormFinder (Andersen et al., 2004) validation programs and results enable the candidate reference genes to be ranked from most to least stable. Quantification cycle (C(q)) variability was determined between samples, i.e. between treatment groups and time points, and variability was also observed between the three validation programs. The reference gene combination of beta-actin and hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyl transferase (HPRT) was found to be the most stable in Norm Finder. BestKeeper and geNorm both demonstrated beta-microglobulin and tyrosine 3-monooxygenase/tryptophan 5-monooxygenase (YWHAZ) as the most stable. The determination of a stable set of reference genes in the BL-3 cell culture system facilitates analysis of expression levels for appropriate genes of interest. This study further emphasises the need to accurately validate candidate reference genes before use in gene expression RT-qPCR studies.


pmid: 19428855
title: Evaluation of efficacy of mammalian and baculovirus expressed E2 subunit vaccine candidates to bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is a worldwide pathogen of cattle causing a wide spectrum of clinical disease. The major envelope glycoprotein of BVDV, E2, induces the production of neutralising antibodies. In this study we compared the protection afforded to cattle after BVDV challenge by two separate E2 vaccine candidates produced by different heterologous protein expression systems. E2 antigen was expressed using the baculovirus expression system (brE2) and a mammalian cell expression system (mrE2). In the first vaccination study the quantity of recombinant protein expressed by the two systems differed. Vaccination of cattle with a higher dose of brE2 or low dose mrE2 gave comparable protection from viral challenge. Immunised animals showed no pyrexia and reduced leucopaenia which contrasted to the unvaccinated controls. In addition virus shedding from the nasal mucosa was decreased in the vaccinated groups and strong humoral responses were evident post-challenge. However, the efficacy of the brE2 vaccine was greatly diminished when a reduced dose was tested, indicating the importance of assessing the type of expression system used in antigen production.


pmid: 10028169
title: The detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in bulk milk samples by the use of a single-tube RT-PCR
abstract: A single step, single-tube reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test was developed to detect the presence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in somatic cells from bulk milk samples. The test was configured using commercial kit-form RNA extraction and RT-PCR procedures. The test was validated by examining bulk milk samples from approximately 80 herds with a history of BVDV and comparing results with those obtained from samples from a similar-sized control group. The test proved highly specific, giving a positive result in 20.5% of herds with a history of BVDV, with no control herds positive. Its sensitivity was likewise high, detecting, at its maximum, one persistently infected (PI) cow in a herd of 162 lactating animals. In 19 herds where follow-up blood tests were performed, the RT-PCR gave a positive result in all ten herds where at least one lactating PI animals was present. In control involving the detection of PI cattle, the test provides a rapid and inexpensive alternative to individual animal testing for those cows in milk at the time of sampling.


pmid: 2541152
title: Application of peroxidase labelled antibody assays for detection of porcine IgG antibodies to hog cholera and bovine viral diarrhea viruses
abstract: Rapid, sensitive peroxidase labelled antibody (PLA) assays using microtiter systems, were developed for detection of hog cholera virus (HCV) and cross-reacting bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) antibodies in pig sera. HCV-infected pig kidney cell line (PK 15) prepared in microtiter plates were fixed and used in PLA assays. After inoculation with test serum, bound antibodies (HCV/BVDV) were reacted with either horseradish peroxidase (HRP) conjugated anti-porcine immunoglobulin (H & L) or biotinylated protein A (BPA) and subsequent HRP labelled avidin (A). Positive reactions were easily visualized under an inverted light microscope as foci of brown colored cells after enzyme degradation of hydrogen peroxidase in the presence of amino-ethylcarbazole (AEC). The PLA assays were superior to the indirect fluorescent antibody (IFA) test in detecting anti-HCV antibodies in porcine sera collected early after inoculation of pigs with a lapinized HCV vaccine. The performances of the PLA, IFA and FA neutralization (FAN) tests in measuring the immune response in the vaccinated pigs were comparable. Cross-reacting anti-BVDV antibody, as measured by a microtiter serum neutralization (MTSN) test, was not demonstrable in vaccinated pigs until they were challenged with a virulent HCV, 13 weeks later. The PLA assays relative to the IFA test detected more reactive samples among porcine field sera collected from HC-free pigs in Canada. Of 795 samples, 24 (3.01%) were reactive in the PLA employing HRP anti-porcine IgG, and 21 (2.6%) in the PLA, using BPA-HRP-A. When 324 of these sera were screened by the IFA test (using HC antigen), only one sample (0.30%) was found reactive.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


pmid: 26282369
title: Acute infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus of low or high virulence leads to depletion and redistribution of WC1(+) γδ T cells in lymphoid tissues of beef calves
abstract: The objective of this study was to determine the abundance and distribution of γδ T lymphocytes in lymphoid tissue during acute infection with high (HV) or low virulence (LV) non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in beef calves. This study was performed using tissue samples from a previous experiment in which thirty beef calves were randomly assigned to 1 of 3 groups: LV [n=10; animals inoculated intranasally (IN) with LV BVDV-1a (strain SD-1)], HV [n=10; animals inoculated IN with HV BVDV-2 (strain 1373)], and control (n=10; animals inoculated with cell culture medium). On day 5 post inoculation, animals were euthanized, and samples from spleen and mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN) were collected to assess the abundance of WC1(+) γδ T cells. A higher proportion of calves challenged with BVDV showed signs of apoptosis and cytophagy in MLN and spleen samples compared to the control group. A significantly lower number of γδ T cells was observed in spleen and MLN from calves in HV and LV groups than in the control calves (P<0.05). In conclusion, acute infection with HV or LV BVDV resulted in depletion of WC1(+) γδ T cells in mucosal and systemic lymphoid tissues at five days after challenge in beef calves. This reduction in γδ T cells in the studied lymphoid tissues could be also due to lymphocyte trafficking to other tissues.


pmid: 34631846
title: Case Report: Complex Congenital Brain Anomaly in a BBxHF Calf-Clinical Signs, Magnetic Resonance Imaging, and Pathological Findings
abstract: This case report describes the clinical signs, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings and associated (histo)pathological findings in a crossbred Belgian Blue calf with congenital complex brain anomaly. The calf was presented with non-progressive signs (including cerebellar ataxia) since it was born, suggestive of a multifocal intracranial lesion. A congenital anomaly was suspected and after hematology, biochemistry, serology, and cerebrospinal fluid analysis, a magnetic resonance imaging study was performed. The following suspected abnormalities were the principal changes identified: severe hydrocephalus, porencephaly, suspected partial corpus callosum agenesis (CCA), and increased fluid signal between the folia of the cerebellum. Post-mortem examination predominately reflected the MRI findings. The origin for these malformations could not be identified and there was no evidence of a causative infectious agent. Corpus callosum abnormalities have been reported in bovids before and have been linked to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections, as have several other central nervous system anomalies in this species. In this case, BVDV was deemed an unlikely causative agent based on serology test results and lack of typical histopathological signs. The etiology of the congenital anomaly present in this bovine calf remains unknown.


pmid: 32741994
title: Comparison of bovine viral diarrhea virus-specific antibody responses of young beef calves vaccinated with either modified live virus or inactivated virus regimens
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an important pathogen causally associated with morbidity and mortality, and production losses in both suckling and weaned beef calves. Vaccination for protection against disease caused by BVDV is challenging because of the inhibitory effect of maternal antibodies; however, it is most convenient for beef producers to vaccinate calves before moving herds to summer pastures. We compared modified live and inactivated vaccines used for priming and boosting beef calves and found that neither type of vaccine results in strong antibody responses in the face of maternal antibodies. These data are generally consistent with previous studies and suggest that alternative protocols using early mucosal delivery followed by parenteral boosting should be examined to improve vaccine efficacy.


pmid: 18054491
title: Activity of Mannich bases of 7-hydroxycoumarin against Flaviviridae
abstract: Some Mannich bases of 7-hydroxycoumarin (2) and their simple derivatives (3 and 4) were prepared and tested against viruses containing single-stranded, positive-sense RNA genomes (ssRNA(+)). This study was directed toward Flaviviridae and, in particular, HCV surrogate viruses (BVDV, YFV). The 7-hydroxy derivatives 2 were generally devoid of activity, but when position 7 was propylated, the resulting 7-propyloxy derivatives 3 were in some cases endowed with an interesting activity against BVDV. The formation of 7-benzoyl derivatives 4 gave compounds generally lacking in activity against Flaviviridae, whereas the appearance of activity against RSV has been observed. Also some unsymmetrical methylene derivatives 5-7 (namely coumarins bridged to chromones or indoles) were found moderately active in antiviral tests. Derivatives 3 were submitted to a molecular modeling study using DNA polymerase of HCV as a target. The good correlation between calculated molecular modeling IC(50) and experimental EC(50) indicates that DNA polymerase is potentially involved in the inhibition of surrogate HCV viruses.


pmid: 17984600
title: Field application of the combination of neutralizing test and virus isolation, so-called spot test, to detect herds including cattle persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: To detect herds including cattle persistently infected (PI) with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), application of the combination of neutralizing antibody detection and virus isolation, so-called spot test, were performed on sera of 3 calves selected from each of 26 farms. Nine farms were judged as positive because 64 or more antibody titers were detected from 2 or more calves or BVDV was isolated from one or more calves. PI cattle were detected from 8 of the 9 farms. The positive judgment on one farm was obtained only when the indicator virus used on the neutralizing test was genotypically identical with the isolate from the farm. These results suggest that the spot test can be effective in detecting herds with PI cattle and that the accuracy may be influenced by the genotypes of the indicator viruses.


pmid: 15019104
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 is classified into different subgenotypes depending on the analyzed region within the viral genome
abstract: Phylogenetic analyses of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were performed based on the nucleotide sequences of the 5' untranslated region (5'-UTR) and E2-coding gene. Thirty-six BVDV detected from naturally infected cattle in the northern region of Japan were divided into three genotypes, BVDV1a, BVDV1b and BVDV2, in a 5'-UTR phylogenetic tree. In a phylogenetic tree constructed from the E2-coding gene, BVDV1c was identified and the viruses classified in BVDV1c were included in BVDV1a in the 5'-UTR phylogenetic tree. Moreover, BVDV1a and BVDV1b in the E2-phylogenetic tree clustered closer together than in the 5'-UTR tree. These results suggested that phylogenetic analysis of the E2 gene was more useful for identification of subgenotypes within BVDV1.


pmid: 12185268
title: Identification of the glycosaminoglycan-binding site on the glycoprotein E(rns) of bovine viral diarrhoea virus by site-directed mutagenesis
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) envelope glycoprotein E(rns) interacts with highly sulphated heparin-like glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) located on the cell surface as an early step in virus infection of cells. Site-directed mutagenesis of recombinant E(rns) was undertaken and analysis of mutants by heparin-affinity chromatography and cell surface binding showed that a cluster of basic amino acids (480KKLENKSK487) near the C terminus of E(rns) was essential for binding. Mutants with amino acid substitutions of lysine residues 481 and 485 in E(rns) reduced the binding of E(rns) to immobilized heparin and cellular GAGs but retained ribonuclease activity. In contrast to normal E(rns), E(rns) that was unable to bind to cells also failed to inhibit BVDV infection of cells when the cells were pre-incubated with E(rns). It is proposed that the cluster of basic residues (480KKLENKSK487) localized at the C-terminal end of E(rns) constitutes a GAG-binding site.


pmid: 7785188
title: Identification of herd-specific bovine viral diarrhoea virus isolates from infected cattle and sheep
abstract: Thirteen pestiviruses isolated from ruminants on four different farms in Sweden were compared antigenically and genetically. On two farms, viruses were isolated from both cattle and sheep, a third farm contained only sheep and a fourth only cattle. Seven viruses were isolated from six different cattle and six viruses were isolated from five different sheep. Epitope conservation between the viruses was studied with a panel of 32 monoclonal antibodies, revealing that all of the isolates were BVDV-like. However, certain epitopes present in isolates from cattle were lost following virus transmission to sheep. In vitro amplification of the 5'-untranslated region of the 13 isolates by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and subsequent analyses of amplified products with restriction enzymes also indicated that all 13 isolates belong to the BVDV group of pestiviruses. A fragment of the E2 (gp53) gene of each virus was amplified by PCR and a comparison of the amplified sequence of 188 nucleotides separated the isolates into four groups each of which could be identified with a particular farm of origin. The 13 isolates were thus herd-specific rather than species-specific demonstrating that BVDV is readily transmitted between cattle and sheep.


pmid: 1649345
title: Pestivirus gene expression: the first protein product of the bovine viral diarrhea virus large open reading frame, p20, possesses proteolytic activity
abstract: The positive-strand RNA genome of pestiviruses contains a single large open reading frame (ORF) extending its entire length and is capable of encoding 450 kDa of protein. Studies have been undertaken with the purpose of elucidating the specific mechanisms involved in the biogenesis of the complete complement of pestivirus proteins. Here, we report on gene expression at the 5' end of the genome of the prototype pestivirus, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). We demonstrate, using both a cell-free transcription-translation system and a mammalian-cell transient-expression system, that the first protein product of the large ORF of BVDV, the p20 protein, possesses a specific proteolytic activity. The p20 proteinase activity acts to release the p20 protein from the nascent polyprotein. The p20 proteinase activity is not, however, required for downstream glycoprotein processing, indicating translocation of the pestivirus glycoprotein precursor is affected by an internal signal sequence.


pmid: 9210921
title: Molecular characterization of hog cholera virus
abstract: An efficient tissue culture system was established which allowed to obtain substantial quantities of hog cholera virus (HCV) from the cell free tissue culture supernatant. After preparation of viral RNA and cDNA synthesis, the complete HCV genome was cloned and sequenced. Comparison with published BVDV sequences revealed a surprisingly high homology between HCV and BVDV at both the nucleotide and the amino acid level. In addition host cellular sequences were identified in BVDV genomes. The genomic localization of HCV glycoproteins was determined by the use of sequence specific antisera directed against bacterial fusion proteins. The order on the HCV genome was determined as follows: N-gp44/48-gp33-gp55-C. HCV gp33 and HCV gp55 were shown to be intracellularly linked by disulfide bridges. A cDNA fragment covering the genomic region that encodes the structural proteins of HCV was inserted into a vaccinia recombination vector. Expression studies with vaccinia/HCV recombinants led to identification of HCV specific glycoproteins which migrated on sodium dodecyl sulfate-gels identically to glycoproteins precipitated from HCV-infected cells. The vaccinia virus/HCV recombinant that expressed all four structural proteins induced virus-neutralizing antibodies in mice and swine. After immunization of pigs with this recombinant virus, full protection against a lethal challenge with HCV was achieved. A construct that lacked most of the HCV gp55 gene failed to induce neutralizing antibodies but induced protective immunity.


pmid: 1850892
title: Detection of bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) virus using the polymerase chain reaction
abstract: The approach of reverse transcription (RT) followed by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to amplify three different fragments of the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) genome. Two sets of primers framed two different regions within the gene coding for protein p80, the third set of primers was selected to amplify cDNA within the envelope glycoprotein (gp53) region. All three sequences could be detected in the homologous strain (NADL), whereas only some of the fragments could be amplified in heterologous strains of BVDV. RNA extracted from infected cells as well as RNA extracted from viral particles could be detected using RT-PCR. The detection limit was 10(-1)-10(-2) TCID50 in ethidium bromide stained gels and could be further enhanced to 10(-2)-10(-4) TCID50 by hybridization after Southern transfer. The speed and the sensitivity of this method might be of relevance for diagnostic purposes as well as for studies on epidemiology and pathogenesis of infection with BVD virus.


pmid: 25649948
title: Field distribution of END phenomenon-negative bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Field isolates of BVDV which do not show the exaltation of Newcastle disease virus (END) phenomenon (END(-)) are rarely reported. In this study, 45 BVDV field isolates from cattle in Hokkaido prefecture in Japan were analyzed by the reverse plaque formation method, the END method and observation of cytopathic effects. END(-) virus was detected in 34 of 45 isolates (75.6%), although 35 of 45 field isolates contained END phenomenon positive virus as the predominant virus population. We propose that END(-) viruses are widely distributed in the field and that it is possible that the mixture of biologically distinct BVDV correlates with the appearance of disease in infected animals.


pmid: 24779466
title: Pathogens in water deer (Hydropotes inermis) in South Korea, 2010-12
abstract: Water deer (Hydropotes inermis) are among the most common wildlife to approach farmhouses and livestock barns in Korea. We collected 305 water deer from Gangwon (n=168), South Chungcheong (n=89), and Gyeongsang (n=48) provinces in 2010-12 and used PCR and serologic tests to screen the deer for pathogens. In 2010, tests for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), rotavirus, and Brucella abortus were positive in 8% (5/60), 2% (1/60), and 59% (33/56) of the animals, respectively. In 2010, the water deer were negative for foot-and-mouth disease virus, coronaviruses, and Mycobacterium bovis. All samples collected in 2011 and 2012 were negative for all pathogens analyzed. These results suggest that at least two of the investigated pathogens, BVDV and B. abortus, circulate among water deer in South Korea.


pmid: 22923795
title: Complete genome sequence of a bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 from commercial fetal bovine serum
abstract: We isolated a bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) from commercial fetal bovine serum and designated it HLJ-10. The complete genome is 12,284 nucleotides (nt); the open reading frame is 11,694 nt, coding 3,898 amino acids. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that this strain belongs to BVDV group 2.


pmid: 21257416
title: Prevalence of Pasteurella multocida and other respiratory pathogens in the nasal tract of Scottish calves
abstract: The prevalence of Pasteurella multocida, a cause of bovine respiratory disease, was studied in a random sample of beef suckler and dairy farms throughout Scotland, by means of a cross-sectional survey. A total of 637 calves from 68 farms from six geographical regions of Scotland were sampled between February and June 2008. Deep nasal swabs were taken, and samples that were culture-positive for P multocida were confirmed by PCR. Prevalence of P multocida was 17 per cent (105 of 616 calves); 47 per cent of farms had at least one positive animal. A higher prevalence was detected in dairy calves than beef calves (P=0.04). It was found that P multocida was associated with Mycoplasma-like organisms (P=0.06) and bovine parainfluenza type 3 virus (BPI-3) (P=0.04), detected by culture and quantitative PCR of nasal swabs, respectively. Detection of P multocida was not associated with bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BoHV-1) or bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). Mycoplasma-like organisms, BPI-3, BRSV, BoHV-1 and BVDV were detected in 58, 17, four, 0 and eight calves, on 25, five, two, 0 and five of the 68 farms, respectively.


pmid: 9087921
title: Standardization of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) for quantitative estimation of antibodies specific for infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus, respiratory syncytial virus, parainfluenza-3 virus, and bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Commercial enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) for detection of serum antibodies to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), parainfluenza-3 virus (PI3V), respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), and infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBRV) were standardized to give a quantitative result when testing was performed at a single optimum dilution. For each test, serum samples were titrated and their end point titers calculated by an algebraic method directly from a plot of each titration series and also from a regression line fitted to this plot. The corrected optical density (COD) of each sample when tested at dilutions of 1/25, 1/50, and 1/100 was expressed as a percentage of the COD of a positive reference serum included on each plate, this value was the sample/positive (S/P) ratio. For each test, the linear relationship between the S/P ratio obtained at a dilution of 1/25, 1/50, and 1/100 and the end point titer calculated by each method was determined. In each case, the best linear relationship existed when samples were tested at a dilution of 1/100 (r = 0.973 for BVDV, 0.962 for PI3V, 0.961 for RSV, 0.947 for IBRV). From the equation of these lines, an increase in the S/P ratio between acute and convalescent serum samples of 31%, 23%, 21%, and 35% would correspond to a 4-fold rise in ELISA titer to BVDV, PI3V, RSV, and IBRV, respectively. ELISA titers calculated from S/P ratios at 1/100 were significantly related to virus neutralization titers to BVDV, RSV, and IBRV and to hemagglutination inhibition titers to PI3V (P < < 0.001 in all cases). Samples with low S/P ratios had the greatest intraassay and interassay variation. Intraassay reproducibility ranged from 3.5% to 22.3% (coefficient of variation), with a median value of 9.5%. Interassay reproducibility was lower, ranging from 6.0% to 50.6%, with a median of 17.4%.


pmid: 32098229
title: RNA Sequencing (RNA-Seq) Based Transcriptome Analysis in Immune Response of Holstein Cattle to Killed Vaccine against Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Type I
abstract: Immune response of 107 vaccinated Holstein cattle was initially obtained prior to the ELISA test. Five cattle with high and low bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type I antibody were identified as the final experimental animals. Blood samples from these animals were then utilized to determine significant differentially expressed genes (DEGs) using the RNA-seq transcriptome analysis and enrichment analysis. Our analysis identified 261 DEGs in cattle identified as experimental animals. Functional enrichment analysis in gene ontology (GO) annotations and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways revealed the DEGs potentially induced by the inactivated BVDV type I vaccine, and might be responsible for the host immune responses. Our findings suggested that inactivated vaccine induced upregulation of genes involved in different GO annotations, including antigen processing and presentation of peptide antigen (via MHC class I), immune response, and positive regulation of interferon-gamma production. The observed downregulation of other genes involved in immune response might be due to inhibition of toll-like receptors (TLRs) by the upregulation of the Bcl-3 gene. Meanwhile, the result of KEGG pathways revealed that the majority of DEGs were upregulated and enriched to different pathways, including cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction, platelet activation, extracellular matrix (ECM) receptor interaction, hematopoietic cell lineage, and ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters. These significant pathways supported our initial findings and are known to play a vital role in shaping adaptive immunity against BVDV type 1. In addition, type 1 diabetes mellitus pathways tended to be significantly enriched. Thus, further studies are needed to investigate the prevalence of type 1 diabetes mellitus in cattle vaccinated with inactivated and live BVDV vaccine.


pmid: 28843682
title: Herd-level prevalence of selected endemic infectious diseases of dairy cows in Great Britain
abstract: To implement appropriate and effective disease control programs at the national level, up-to-date and unbiased information on disease frequency is needed. The aim of this study was to estimate the prevalence of selected endemic infectious diseases in the population of dairy herds in Great Britain. Bulk milk tank (BMT) samples from 225 randomly selected dairy farms, stratified by region and herd size, were tested for antibodies against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine herpesvirus type 1, Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis, Leptospira Hardjo, Salmonella spp., Coxiella burnetii, Fasciola hepatica, Neospora caninum, and Ostertagia ostertagi. Furthermore, the presence of BVDV, C. burnetii, and Chlamydia-like organisms was determined by PCR. The apparent herd prevalence was estimated as a weighted proportion of positive herds. The true prevalence was calculated when a test was used with known test characteristics for the cut-off value used. Among unvaccinated herds, the true prevalence of BMT antibodies against BVDV was estimated at 66% [95% confidence interval (CI): 56-77%], M. avium ssp. paratuberculosis 68% (95% CI: 59-77%), bovine herpesvirus type 1 62% (95% CI: 52-73%), Leptospira Hardjo 47% (95% CI: 34-60%), and Salmonella spp. 48% (95% CI: 39-56%). The apparent prevalence of BMT antibodies against C. burnetii was 80% (95% CI: 75-85%), F. hepatica 55% (95% CI: 48-62%), N. caninum 46% (95% CI: 38-54%), and O. ostertagi 95% (95% CI: 91-98%). The BVDV, C. burnetii, and Chlamydia-like antigens were detected in 5 (95% CI: 2-9%), 29 (95% CI: 21-36%), and 31% (95% CI: 24-38%) of herds, respectively. Our results show that dairy cows across GB are frequently exposed to the studied pathogens, which are endemic at high levels with some geographical variations. These prevalence estimates provide a much-needed basis to assess whether nationwide control programs for the studied pathogens are justified by their potential economic, environmental, and public health implications. Should surveillance and control programs be initiated, the estimates presented here are a baseline against which progress can be assessed.


pmid: 26641062
title: Decreasing the frequency of energy supplementation from daily to three times weekly impairs growth and humoral immune response of preconditioning beef steers
abstract: We evaluated the effects of frequency of energy supplementation on growth and measurements of innate and humoral immune responses of preconditioning beef steers following vaccination. Angus steers ( = 24; 221 ± 6.3 kg; 177 ± 4 d of age) were weaned on d -7 and kept in a single drylot pen with free access to tall fescue hay and concentrate DMI at 0.5% of BW (50:50 mix of soyhulls and corn gluten pellets; DM basis) from d -7 to 0. On d 0, steers were stratified by BW and age and randomly assigned to 1 of 8 feedlot pens (3 steers/pen). Treatments were randomly assigned to pens (4 pens/treatment) and consisted of steers provided daily free access to ground tall fescue hay and similar weekly concentrate DMI (1% of BW times 7 d), which was divided and offered either daily (S7) or 3 times weekly (S3; Monday, Wednesday, and Friday) from d 0 to 42. Individual BW was measured before feeding on d 0 and 42, after 12 h of feed and water withdrawal. Steers were vaccinated against infectious bovine rhinotracheitis, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and clostridium on d 7 and 21. Blood samples were collected from the jugular vein on d -7 and 4 h after concentrate supplementation on d 0, 7, 8, 9, 10, 14, 21, 22, 23, 24, 28, 35, and 42. Steers offered concentrate daily had greater ( ≤ 0.02) BW on d 42, overall ADG, and total DMI, but similar ( = 0.14) G:F, than S3 steers. On days that S7 and S3 steers were offered concentrate, total DMI was greater and hay DMI was less for S3 vs. S7 steers ( ≤ 0.05). On days that only S7 steers were supplemented, hay DMI was greater, but total DMI was less for S3 vs. S7 steers ( ≤ 0.05). Mean CP and NEg intake were greater ( ≤ 0.03) for S7 vs. S3 steers. Plasma cortisol concentrations on d 7 and 28, and mean plasma haptoglobin concentrations, but not liver mRNA expression of haptoglobin ( = 0.75), were greater for S3 vs. S7 steers ( ≤ 0.03). Plasma IGF-1 concentrations on d 0 and urea nitrogen on d 1 and 3, relative to vaccination, were greater for S7 vs. S3 steers ( ≤ 0.008). Positive seroconversion to BVDV-1b on d 42 and mean serum BVDV-1b titers were greater for S7 vs. S3 steers ( ≤ 0.05). In summary, decreasing the frequency of concentrate supplementation from daily to three times weekly, during a 42-d preconditioning period, decreased growth performance, increased plasma concentrations of haptoglobin and cortisol, and decreased vaccine-induced antibody production against BVDV-1b of beef steers.


pmid: 6274148
title: Demonstration of bovine viral diarrhea virus antigen in cryostat- and paraffin-sections of bovine tissues by the immunoperoxidase technique
abstract: An immunoperoxidase technique (IPT) for the demonstration of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) antigen in tissue sections is presented. The method was applied to cryostat sections and to alcohol fixed, paraffin embedded specimens. The specificity as well as the sensitivity of the IPT corresponded to the immunofluorescence technique (IFT), and the specimen processing methods used represented an improvement of the histomorphological preservation of tissue structures.


pmid: 16548328
title: Effects of noncytopathic type 2 bovine viral diarrhea virus on the proliferation of bone marrow progenitor cells
abstract: The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of isolates of noncytopathic type 2 Bovine viral diarrhea virus (ncpBVDV-2) of high and low virulence on the proliferation of bone marrow progenitor cells. Holstein calves 6 to 7 mo old and BVDV-naïve were inoculated intranasally with a BVDV isolate of high virulence (HV24515), a BVDV isolate of low virulence (LV11Q), or uninfected cell culture medium. Serial bone marrow and peripheral blood samples were collected before and after inoculation. Bone marrow mononuclear cells (BMMCs) were isolated and cultured for 5 d, and the mean number of colony-forming unit-granulocyte-macrophage (CFU-GM) colonies was determined. Tritiated (3H)-thymidine uptake by BMMCs was determined to indicate overall proliferative capacity. Virus isolation was done on concurrent samples of BMMCs and peripheral blood. Virus was isolated from BMMCs and peripheral blood buffy-coat cells as early as day 2 or 3 after inoculation. Neutropenia developed in both groups inoculated with a BVDV isolate. However, in the calves given LV11Q, neutrophil counts rebounded earlier in response to increased proliferation of BMMCs, whereas the response was delayed in calves given HV24515. Thymidine uptake was significantly increased (P = 0.0047) in BMMCs after inoculation compared with before inoculation in the calves given LV11Q but not in those given HV24515 or in the control calves. The median number of CFU-GM colonies was significantly decreased (P = 0.0164) after inoculation compared with before inoculation in the calves given HV24515, whereas there was no significant difference in the calves given LV11Q or in the control calves. The data support the hypothesis that the prolonged neutropenia observed in calves given HV24515 results at least in part from decreased proliferative capacity of bone marrow progenitor cells.


pmid: 14747527
title: Fusion to C3d enhances the immunogenicity of the E2 glycoprotein of type 2 bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The use of DNA and protein subunit vaccines in animals provides an opportunity to introduce vaccines that are arguably the safest that can be developed. For that reason, considerable effort is under way to devise methods of enhancing the immunogenicity of such vaccines. Seven years ago it was shown that fusing complement fragment C3d to hen egg lysozyme (HEL) enhanced the immunogenicity of HEL 10,000-fold. Based on this observation, we decided to evaluate the effect of C3d on the immunogenicity of the E2 protein of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). E2 is the major target of neutralizing antibody during BVDV infection. To test the effect of C3d on E2 immunogenicity, expression cassettes encoding a secreted form of E2 alone (E2s) or E2 fused to three copies of murine C3d (E2s-C3d) were constructed. The proteins were purified from the supernatants of transfected cells and used to immunize mice. The immune response was monitored by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for E2s-specific antibody and by a virus neutralization test. The ELISA results indicated that the E2s-C3d protein is 10,000-fold more immunogenic than the E2s protein alone. The maximum primary immune response was elicited with <0.1 microg of E2s-C3d protein without an adjuvant. In addition, we have shown for the first time that high levels of anti-E2s and neutralizing antibodies can be elicited when this same low concentration of E2s-C3d is used to both prime and boost the immune response. We conclude that the E2s-C3d fusion protein has significant potential as a subunit vaccine against BVDV infection.


pmid: 11264342
title: Antiviral effect of N-butyldeoxynojirimycin against bovine viral diarrhea virus correlates with misfolding of E2 envelope proteins and impairment of their association into E1-E2 heterodimers
abstract: The iminosugar N-butyldeoxynojirimycin (NB-DNJ), an endoplasmic reticulum alpha-glucosidase inhibitor, has an antiviral effect against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). In this report, we investigate the molecular mechanism of this inhibition by studying the folding pathway of BVDV envelope glycoproteins in the presence and absence of NB-DNJ. Our results show that, while the disulfide-dependent folding of E2 glycoprotein occurs rapidly (2.5 min), the folding of E1 occurs slowly (30 min). Both BVDV envelope glycoproteins associate rapidly with calnexin and dissociate with different kinetics. The release of E1 from the interaction with calnexin coincides with the beginning of E1 and E2 association into disulfide-linked heterodimers. In the presence of NB-DNJ, the interaction of E1 and E2 with calnexin is prevented, leading to misfolding of the envelope glycoproteins and inefficient formation of E1-E2 heterodimers. The degree of misfolding and the lack of association of E1 and E2 into disulfide-linked complexes in the presence of NB-DNJ correlate with the dose-dependent antiviral effect observed for this iminosugar.


pmid: 10530426
title: Seroprevalence to bovine virus diarrhoea virus and other viruses of the bovine respiratory complex in Venezuela (Apure State)
abstract: Six hundred and fifteen serum samples obtained from cows in five districts of Apure State, Venezuela, were tested by ELISA for antibodies to bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV). The same samples were also ELISA-tested for antibodies to bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BHV-1) and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV). Additionally, the haemagglutination-inhibition (HI) test was used for detecting antibodies to parainfluenza virus type 3 (PIV-3). Overall, seroprevalence to BVDV was 36+/-7% (SE); seroprevalence varied by district (19-42%). BHV-1 seroprevalence was 67+/-4%; variation by district was similar to that of BVDV. However, the first 80 serum samples tested by BHV-1 ELISA all had a strong background reaction with the control antigen. Therefore, these sera were adsorbed to a homogenate of non-infected bovine kidney cell line (MDBK) and retested by ELISA. The non-specific reactivity was significantly reduced (p<0.001 by Wilcoxon's signed-rank test). Compared to the virus-neutralisation (VN) test, the adsorbed BHV-1 ELISA showed 94% agreement and gave a kappa value of 0.84, indicating that the adsorption did not interfere with test accuracy. Seroprevalence against BRSV was 85+/-3%, and showed differences across districts. Most of the cows (94+/-2%) were seropositive to PIV-3, and there were no significant differences among districts.


pmid: 20357964
title: Bighorn sheep fetal lung cell line for detection of respiratory viruses
abstract: Pneumonia is an important disease of bighorn sheep (BHS) that is primarily responsible for the drastic decline in numbers of these animals in North America. Members of the genus Mannheimia and Pasteurella have frequently been isolated from the pneumonic lungs of BHS. Antibodies to several respiratory viruses, including bovine parainfluenza virus 3 (BPIV-3), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and bovine herpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1), have been detected in herds of BHS. The availability of BHS fetal lung cell lines is likely to enhance the chances of isolation of these viruses. Here we report the development of such a cell line. This line is permissive for BPIV-3, BRSV, BVDV, and BoHV-1 infection, as revealed by an enzyme immunoassay of virus-infected cells with antibodies specific for each of these viruses. This cell line should be valuable for detecting these 4, and possibly other, respiratory viruses in BHS.


pmid: 18460835
title: Application of restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis to simple and rapid genotyping of bovine viral diarrhea virus strains isolated in Japan
abstract: The E2 regions of 177 bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strains isolated in Japan between 1957 and 2006 were analyzed for genotyping. The strains were classified into 8 genotypes (1a, 1b, 1c, 1d, 1e, 1f, So and 2a) based on the phylogenetic analysis. The restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis of the RT-PCR products using 6 selected enzymes (Apo I, Mly I, BstAP I, Pvu II, Ear I, EcoR V) disclosed the cutting patterns classified into 11 groups (I-XI), each of that consisted of strains belonging to a single genotype. Namely, groups-I and -II were composed by genotype-1a strains, groups-III and -IV by 1b strains, and groups-V and -VI by 1c strains. Other groups-VII, -VIII, -IX, -X and -XI comprised genotypes-1d, -1e, -1f, -So and -2a strains, respectively. The results suggest that the RFLP analysis can simply and rapidly differentiate the 8 genotypes of BVDV strains.


pmid: 18371520
title: Virucidal activity of ortho-phthalaldehyde solutions against hepatitis B and C viruses
abstract: Ortho-phthalaldehyde (OPA), a high-level disinfectant alternative to glutaraldehyde, was tested for efficacy against human hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) using surrogate animal viruses. HBV and HCV are the most prevalent human bloodborne viruses but have not yet been propagated in the laboratory. The surrogate viruses, duck hepatitis B virus (DHBV) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), were used to assess the virucidal efficacy of OPA on HBV and HCV, respectively. After a timed exposure to the test disinfectant, the surrogate virus dried on a hard surface was neutralized and assayed to detect viable viruses using appropriate cell lines. A greater than 4-log(10) reduction in virus titer was demonstrated using dilute OPA solutions against dried DHBV and BVDV after 5 minutes of exposure at 20 degrees C. OPA was shown to be efficacious against surrogate viruses for human hepatitis B and hepatitis C virus. This is the first time that OPA efficacy has been demonstrated for HBV and HCV.


pmid: 14733272
title: Antibodies to ruminant alpha-herpesviruses and pestiviruses in Norwegian cervids
abstract: A serologic survey revealed that Norwegian populations of free-ranging reindeer (Rangifer tarandus tarandus), roe deer (Capreolus capreolus), red deer (Cervus elaphus), and moose (Alces alces) have been exposed to alpha-herpesviruses and pestiviruses. A total of 3,796 serum samples collected during the period 1993-2000 were tested in a neutralization test for antibodies against bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1) or cervid herpesvirus 2 (CerHV-2), and 3,897 samples were tested by a neutralization test and/or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for antibodies against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Antibodies against alpha-herpesvirus were found in 28.5% of reindeer, 3.0% of roe deer, and 0.5% of red deer, while all moose samples were negative. In reindeer, the prevalence of seropositive animals increased with age and was higher in males than females. Antibodies against BVDV were detected in 12.3% of roe deer, 4.2% of reindeer, 2.0% of moose and 1.1% of red deer. The results indicate that both alpha-herpesvirus and pestivirus are endemic in reindeer and pestivirus is endemic in roe deer in Norway. The viruses may be specific cervid strains. Seropositive red deer and moose may have become exposed as a result of contact with other ruminant species.


pmid: 12784560
title: [Feasibility of serological bulk milk testing as a method for BVD surveillance]
abstract: A commercial ELISA detecting antibodies against bovine viral diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) was analysed for its applicability for bulk-milk screening. Detection limits were analysed using native and concentrated milk samples (milk treated with rennet and ammonium sulfate precipitated) from 10 cows whose sera showed different reactivity levels in the ELISA and from two cows which gave birth to persistently infected calves during the last year. Further this and a second commercial ELISA were used to screen 591 randomly selected bulk-milk samples. To clarify discrepancies thirty-nine herds were included in a follow-up study. A second bulk-milk sample and serum samples from 10 young cattle of 6 to 28 month of age per herd were analysed for antibodies against BVDV. The results of this second testing and the detection of viremic animals in 4 herds confirmed the results from initial bulk-milk testing with both tests. The analysed test is suitable for bulk-milk testing although its application is limited by vaccination.


pmid: 12438578
title: Requirements for de novo initiation of RNA synthesis by recombinant flaviviral RNA-dependent RNA polymerases
abstract: RNA-dependent RNA polymerases (RdRps) that initiate RNA synthesis by a de novo mechanism should specifically recognize the template initiation nucleotide, T1, and the substrate initiation nucleotide, the NTPi. The RdRps from hepatitis C virus (HCV), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and GB virus-B all can initiate RNA synthesis by a de novo mechanism. We used RNAs and GTP analogs, respectively, to examine the use of the T1 nucleotide and the initiation nucleotide (NTPi) during de novo initiation of RNA synthesis. The effects of the metal ions Mg(2+) and Mn(2+) on initiation were also analyzed. All three viral RdRps require correct base pairing between the T1 and NTPi for efficient RNA synthesis. However, each RdRp had some distinct tolerances for modifications in the T1 and NTPi. For example, the HCV RdRp preferred an NTPi lacking one or more phosphates regardless of whether Mn(2+) was present or absent, while the BVDV RdRp efficiently used GDP and GMP for initiation of RNA synthesis only in the presence of Mn(2+). These and other results indicate that although the three RdRps share a common mechanism of de novo initiation, each has distinct preferences.


pmid: 12163043
title: Role of disulfide bond formation in the folding and assembly of the envelope glycoproteins of a pestivirus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a pestivirus member of the Flaviviridae family, closely related to, and used as a surrogate model for the hepatitis C virus. Its envelope contains the E1 and E2 glycoproteins, disulfide linked into homo- and heterodimers. In this study, we investigate the role of disulfide bond formation in the folding, assembly, and stability of BVDV glycoproteins. We provide molecular evidence that intact disulfide bonds are critical for the acquirement of a stable conformation of E2 monomers. Forcing the E2 glycoproteins to adopt a reduced conformation either co- or post-translationally before assembly into dimers, determines their misfolding and degradation by proteasome. In contrast, dimerization of E2 glycoproteins results in a conformation resistant to reducing agents and degradation. Furthermore, inhibition of the ER-alpha-mannosidase activity leads to impairment of misfolded E2 degradation, demonstrating the involvement of this enzyme in targeting viral proteins towards proteasomal degradation.


pmid: 9618985
title: [Pestivirus as causative agent of abortion and perinatal mortality in cattle and sheep in Switzerland]
abstract: The causal involvement of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and border disease virus (BDV) infection in bovine and ovine abortion and perinatal mortality remain unclear. From 1992 until 1994, 213 bovine and 31 ovine foetuses as well as 36 calves and 25 lambs which had died perinatally were investigated. Tissue samples were tested for the presence of pestiviruses and serum or fluid from the body cavities were analysed for the presence of pestivirus antibodies. Detection of pestiviruses was performed by (i) cell culture isolation, (ii) antigen ELISA and (iii) immunohistochemical staining for viral antigen. For antibody-testing an indirect ELISA was used. In nine bovine foetuses and in two calves BVDV was isolated. Pestiviruses, most likely BDV were detected in one ovine foetus and three lambs. In 6% of the bovine and 11% of the ovine foetuses anti-pestivirus antibodies were detected. However, clinical features and history of bovine cases did not show a correlation with the diagnostic results, In contrast, the presence of central nervous system signs in neonatal lambs and the detection of BDV was correlated.


pmid: 9467300
title: Level of viral antigen in blood leucocytes from cattle acutely infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Blood samples from 24 calves undergoing experimental acute infection with a non-cytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) were examined for viral antigen in peripheral leucocytes with an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and for presence of virus in blood plasma in a cell culture assay. With the antigen ELISA, low positive values were detected in leucocytes sampled on days 3-4 from two of eight animals inoculated intranasally, and on days 11-13 from three of 16 animals inoculated intramuscularly. From 22 of the animals, low titres of BVDV were detected in blood plasma obtained 2-9 days after inoculation. All other samples, drawn between 2 and 21 days after inoculation, were negative for viral antigen. All animals seroconverted 3-4 weeks after inoculation, some after having shown mild and transient signs of disease.


pmid: 8928577
title: Expression and characterization of part of hog cholera virus non-structural proteins
abstract: In a preceding paper, the molecular cloning and partial nucleotide sequence of the Alfort strain of hog cholera virus (HCV) was described. To study the genetic organization of the 3'-end of the HCV genome, which encodes some of the non-structural proteins, a cDNA fragment (S2.20) of 849 nucleotides was subcloned into the bacterial expression vector pGEX-3X and expressed in Escherichia coli as a S2.20-glutathione-S-transferase fusion protein (S2.20-GST). This protein was used to produce HCV-specific monoclonal antibodies. Using Western immunoblotting, these antibodies could be used to identify a specific gene product of the HCV Alfort strain. Three proteins, with relative molecular weights of 76, 107 and 145 kDa, were detected. These proteins were also observed for eight other HCV strains. With the bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) NADL strain and the border disease virus (BDV) Aveyron strain, only one protein, with a relative molecular weight of 72 kDa, was detected. With the BVDV New York strain, two proteins, with relative molecular weights of 70 and 100 kDa, were recognized. The significance of these findings with respect to pestivirus genomic organization is discussed.


pmid: 8533232
title: Protection of the bovine fetus from bovine viral diarrhoea virus by means of a new inactivated vaccine
abstract: A model is described for the validation of vaccines designed to protect the bovine fetus from bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). The fetopathic nature of the challenge strain of virus was confirmed and the method used to test a commercial vaccine (Bovidec) developed from a Compton prototype. Heifers were vaccinated two or three times about the time of impregnation and challenged when they were between 25 and 80 days of gestation. There was no evidence of a viraemia in the heifers after the challenge, or of infection with BVDV of 13 liveborn calves or two aborted fetuses.


pmid: 1654660
title: Replication of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in the bovine reproductive tract and excretion of virus in semen during acute and chronic infections
abstract: Five mature bulls were studied during an acute transient infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). The bulls had been infected experimentally by the intranasal instillation of blood and serum from a cow which was a persistent carrier of the virus. Infection was confirmed by the demonstration of a low titred viraemia in four of the five animals and by the seroconversion of all five. Semen samples were collected from each bull on four occasions between seven and 14 days after infection. The virus was isolated from the semen of three of the five bulls and from nine of 12 batches of semen from them. In contrast to other studies of the infection of semen, BVDV was isolated with similar efficiency from raw, unprocessed semen and from diluted, extended semen. The titres of virus in the semen ranged from 5 to 75 TCID50/ml. The infection did not appear to affect the quality of the semen. Shedding of virus continued after the end of the period of viraemia and appeared to be a consequence of the replication of the virus in the reproductive tract and its subsequent excretion in the seminal fluid. Virological studies of the reproductive tracts of these bulls suggested that the most productive sites of virus replication were the seminal vesicles and the prostate gland. Concurrent studies in a persistently infected bull supported these findings.


pmid: 24973239
title: The viral envelope is not sufficient to transfer the unique broad cell tropism of Bungowannah virus to a related pestivirus
abstract: Bungowannah virus is the most divergent pestivirus, and both origin and reservoir host have not been identified so far. We therefore performed in vitro tropism studies, which showed that Bungowannah virus differs remarkably from other pestiviruses. Interestingly, cell lines of vervet monkey, mouse, human and even of bat origin were susceptible. This broad in vitro tropism was not observed for a chimeric bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) expressing all structural proteins of Bungowannah virus. The viral envelope was not sufficient to completely transfer the cell tropism of Bungowannah virus to another pestivirus, and viral RNA replication was either markedly reduced or not detectable in a number of different cell lines for the tested BVDV strain and the chimera. We therefore suggest that the replication machinery together with the viral envelope is responsible for the unique broad cell tropism of Bungowannah virus.


pmid: 17566858
title: Evidence for positive selection on the E2 gene of bovine viral diarrhoea virus type 1
abstract: Despite the growing interest in the molecular epidemiology of pestivirus, there have been few attempts to determine which regions of the pestivirus genome are subject to positive selection, although this may be a key indicator of the nature of the interaction between host and virus. By using likelihood-based methods for phylogenetic inference, the positive selection pressure of BVDV-1 E2 gene were assessed and a site-by-site analysis of the dN/dS ratio was performed, to identify specific codons undergoing diversifying positive selection. The overall omega was 0.20, indicating that most sites were subject to strong purifying selection and five positively selected sites (886, 888, 905, 944, and 946) were identified. It is surprising to find that all the potential positively selected sites fall within the C-terminal of E2, and out of the N-terminal of E2 which is thought to be surface-exposed and therefore prime targets for host antibody response. In conclusion, these results suggest that selection favoring avoidance of antibody recognition has not been a major factor in the history of BVDV-1. Further analysis is necessary to see if amino acid substitutions in the BVDV-1 positively selected sites can lead to change of host tropism or\and escape from epitope-specific CD8 T-cell response.


pmid: 17053318
title: Evidence for pestivirus infection in free-living Japanese serows, Capricornis crispus
abstract: Sixteen serum samples collected from free-living Japanese serows, Capricornis crispus, between 2001 and 2004 in Morioka and its vicinity were examined for the presence of pestivirus by reverse transcription-nested PCR procedure. Three out of the 16 samples produced a visible band in electrophoresed agarose gels. The nucleotide sequences of the three PCR products were found to be identical. The pestivirus found in the serow was identified as Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1) based on nucleotide sequence analyses by phylogeny as well as palindromic nucleotide substitutions at the 5' untranslated regions. Our data first indicated that BVDV-1 infection occurred continuously among the free-living serow populations though the role of BVDV-1 in wild ungulates is currently unknown.


pmid: 29574187
title: The analyses of relationships among nucleotide, synonymous codon and amino acid usages for E2 gene of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: In this study, the systemic analyses of nucleotide, codon and amino acid usages for E2 gene of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were carried out for estimating its genetic features. The nucleotide usage pattern at the first codon position was strongly influenced by the overall nucleotide composition, while the nucleotide usage patterns at the second and third codon positions seemed to have little link to the overall nucleotide composition. The result indicated that the mutation pressure from nucleotide composition constraint was not the single evolutionary force for genetic features of BVDV E2 gene. Just 18 out of 59 synonymous codons were similar with synonymous codon usage patterns for E2 gene between BVDV1 and BVDV2, while all synonymous codons which contain CpG dinucleotides were selected at the low level by E2 gene, suggesting that this gene suppressed the usages of codons containing CpG dinucleotides to regulate E2 gene replicate and transcript efficiently and avoid immune response from infected hosts. Amino acid usage patterns of E2 protein were generally different between BVDV1 and BVDV2. The patterns of synonymous codon and amino acid usages for E2 gene might be caused by the equilibrium of evolutionary forces from virus and host. Our work gave new investigations into the role of host origin in the formations of synonymous codon/amino acid usages and the evolutionary trend of BVDV E2 gene. The genetic characteristics that codon/amino acid usages of E2 gene adapted to the internal environment of individual animals might assist in understanding the changes of genetics and antigenicity for newly emerging BVDV.


pmid: 25239045
title: Silica vesicles as nanocarriers and adjuvants for generating both antibody and T-cell mediated immune resposes to Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus E2 protein
abstract: Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) is widely distributed in cattle industries and causes significant economic losses worldwide annually. A limiting factor in the development of subunit vaccines for BVDV is the need to elicit both antibody and T-cell-mediated immunity as well as addressing the toxicity of adjuvants. In this study, we have prepared novel silica vesicles (SV) as the new generation antigen carriers and adjuvants. With small particle size of 50 nm, thin wall (~6 nm), large cavity (~40 nm) and large entrance size (5.9 nm for SV-100 and 16 nm for SV-140), the SV showed high loading capacity (∼ 250 μg/mg) and controlled release of codon-optimised E2 (oE2) protein, a major immunogenic determinant of BVDV. The in vivo functionality of the system was validated in mice immunisation trials comparing oE2 plus Quil A (50 μg of oE2 plus 10 μg of Quil A, a conventional adjuvant) to the oE2/SV-140 (50 μg of oE2 adsorbed to 250 μg of SV-140) or oE2/SV-140 together with 10 μg of Quil A. Compared to the oE2 plus Quil A, which generated BVDV specific antibody responses at a titre of 10(4), the oE2/SV-140 group induced a 10 times higher antibody response. In addition, the cell-mediated response, which is essential to recognise and eliminate the invading pathogens, was also found to be higher [1954-2628 spot forming units (SFU)/million cells] in mice immunised with oE2/SV-140 in comparison to oE2 plus Quil A (512-1369 SFU/million cells). Our study has demonstrated that SV can be used as the next-generation nanocarriers and adjuvants for enhanced veterinary vaccine delivery.


pmid: 22362966
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus cyclically impairs long bone trabecular modeling in experimental persistently infected fetuses
abstract: Persistent infection (PI) with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has been associated with osteopetrosis and other long bone lesions, most commonly characterized as transverse zones of unmodeled metaphyseal trabeculae in fetuses and calves. This study was undertaken to characterize the morphogenesis of fetal long bone lesions. Forty-six BVDV-naïve pregnant Hereford heifers of approximately 18 months of age were inoculated with noncytopathic BVDV type 2 containing media or media alone on day 75 of gestation to produce PI and control fetuses, respectively, which were collected via cesarean section on days 82, 89, 97, 192, and 245 of gestation. Radiographic and histomorphometric abnormalities were first detected on day 192, at which age PI fetal long bone metaphyses contained focal densities (4 of 7 fetuses) and multiple alternating transverse radiodense bands (3 of 7 fetuses). Day 245 fetuses were similarly affected. Histomorphometric analysis of proximal tibial metaphyses from day 192 fetuses revealed transverse zones with increased calcified cartilage core (Cg.V/BV, %) and trabecular bone (BV/TV, %) volumes in regions corresponding to radiodense bands (P < .05). Numbers of tartrate resistant acid phosphatase positive osteoclasts (N.Oc/BS, #/mm(2)) and bone perimeter occupied (Oc.S/BS, %) were both decreased (P < .05). Mineralizing surface (MS/BS, %), a measure of tissue level bone formation activity, was reduced in PI fetuses (P < .05). It is concluded that PI with BVDV induces cyclic abnormal trabecular modeling, which is secondary to reduced numbers of osteoclasts. The factors responsible for these temporal changes are unknown but may be related to the time required for osteoclast differentiation from precursor cells.


pmid: 9238865
title: Secondary structure of the 5'-noncoding region of border disease virus genome RNAs
abstract: The computer predicted secondary structures from the 5'-NC genome region of four border disease virus (BDV) strains collected from sheep in England and Scotland over a period 1976-1986 were prepared. The FOLD program from GCG sequence analysis software package was used for the analysis of a 243 bp RNA fragment. Two typical shapes of secondary structures were observed which contained multiple imperfect stem-loop motifs. The shape of those structures exactly fit with the grouping of BDV strains to two phylogenetic groups. Secondary structures are typical only of BDV strains and they are different from the structures prepared for NADL (BVDV) and Alfort (CSFV) strains.


pmid: 33453562
title: Quantitative risk assessment of introduction of BVDV and BoHV-1 through indirect contacts based on implemented biosecurity measures in dairy farms of Spain
abstract: A stochastic quantitative risk assessment model was developed to estimate the annual probability of introduction of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and bovine herpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1) on 127 dairy farms through indirect contacts. Vehicles transporting calves, cattle to slaughterhouse, dead animals, and mixture of feed, as well as visits by veterinarians and hoof trimmers, farm workers and contacts with neighbors were considered in the model. Data from biosecurity questionnaires of each farm, scientific literature and expert opinion from field veterinarians, animal vehicle drivers, hoof trimmers and personnel from rendering transport companies were used to estimate values for input parameters. Results showed that the annual probability of introducing BVDV or BoHV-1 through indirect contacts was very heterogeneous. The overall distribution of median values for each farm ranged from 0.5 to 14.6% and from 1.0 to 24.9% for BVDV and BoHV-1, respectively. The model identified that providing protective clothing and boots to visits, not allowing the animal vehicle driver to come into contact with animals present on the farm and ensuring that calf vehicles arrived empty, were the measures with the highest impact on the probability of infection for most farms. This model could be a useful tool to show the impact of the measures to farmers and veterinarians, thus increasing their awareness on biosecurity. In addition, it could support decision making on which measures should be prioritized in dairy cattle herds to reduce the probability of introduction of diseases.


pmid: 30879262
title: Molecular detection and phylogeny of bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 among cattle herds from Northeast, Southeast, and Midwest regions, Brazil
abstract: We examined the circulating BVDV species and genotypes among cattle herds from Northeast, Southeast, and Midwest regions in Brazil. A total of 77 animals tested positive through standard PCR. Phylogenetic analyses revealed the presence of BVDV-1a, highlighting the need for better surveillance strategies to prevent BVDV spread in the country.


pmid: 30086852
title: Potential infection-control benefit of measures to mitigate the risk posed by Trojan dams in the Irish BVD eradication programme
abstract: In the epidemiology of Bovine Viral Diarrhoea (BVD), Trojan dams (animals that are not persistently infected (PI) with BVD (BVDv) virus but carrying PI foetuses) are a vehicle through which infection can be transmitted. We investigated the degree to which restricting movement of cattle from BVDv infected herds would prevent Trojan births in other herds (effectiveness) and the extent to which this would reduce other, non-Trojan, movements (proportionality). We focussed on Irish herds with BVD + animal(s) present during 2014 and/or 2015. The effect of restricting movements of female animals over 12 months of age from these herds was compared with data collected on Trojan dams that calved in 2015. Four different potential restriction lengths were considered, varying from the period when a BVD + animal was present in the herd, to extending this to 12 months after removal of the last BVD + animal. In terms of effectiveness, none of the four restriction measures evaluated was effective at preventing the movement of all Trojan dams. Between 18.3% and 37.3% of Trojan births in 2015 would have been prevented under the proposed measures, and all Trojan births would have been prevented in between 14.4% and 32.5% of herds with BVD + births. In terms of proportionality, between 4.4% and 15.4% of all females > 12 months of age that moved between herds during 2015 would have been prevented from moving, and between 3.5% and 10.1% of Irish herds with at least one such movement would have been affected. These results show how measures to control the movement of Trojan dams should be targeted in a way that fits the Irish context and reduces the spread of BVDv, without unduly impacting other trade.


pmid: 15266896
title: Action of celgosivir (6 O-butanoyl castanospermine) against the pestivirus BVDV: implications for the treatment of hepatitis C
abstract: Alpha-glucosidase I inhibitors have been shown to inhibit the replication of a broad range of enveloped viruses by preventing the correct folding of their envelope glycoproteins. This study assesses the potential of 6 O-butanoyl castanospermine (celgosivir) as a treatment for hepatitis C virus (HCV). In the absence of an adequate culture system for HCV, the closely related virus, bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), was used as a surrogate model. Using both a plaque assay and a cytopathic effect assay, celgosivir (IC50 16 and 47 microM respectively) was shown to be more potent than N-nonyl DNJ (105 and 74 microM), castanospermine (110 and 367 microM) and N-butyl DNJ (> 250 and 550 microM). Of the alpha-glucosidase inhibitors tested, only N-nonyl DNJ showed evidence of toxicity (CC50 > or = 120 microM). Two-way combinations of interferon-alpha, ribavirin and either celgosivir or castanospermine demonstrated that each could enhance the antiviral efficacy of the others, either additively or synergistically. The observation that the number of viral genomes released from BVDV-infected cells was inhibited by either castanospermine or celgosivir in parallel with the number of infectious units was taken as confirmation that these alpha-glucosidase I inhibitors block the production or release of flavivirus particles.


pmid: 12630678
title: Imino sugars that are less toxic but more potent as antivirals, in vitro, compared with N-n-nonyl DNJ
abstract: Imino sugar glucosidase inhibitors have selective antiviral activity against certain enveloped, mammalian viruses. Deoxynojirimycins (DNJs) modified by N-alkylation to contain a nine carbon atom side chain (N-n-nonyl-deoxynojirimycin; N-nonyl-DNJ, NN-DNJ) were shown to be, for example, at least 20 times more potent in inhibiting hepatitis B virus (HBV) and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in cell based assays than the non-alkylated DNJ. These data suggested that modification of the alkyl side chain could influence antiviral activity. Previous work has focused on varying side chain length. In this report, the influence of side chain branching and cyclization upon toxicity and antiviral activity was explored. Briefly, using a virus secretion assay for HBV and a single step growth (yield reduction) assay for BVDV, 14 different DNJ-based sugars, possessing various N-alkyl substitutions, were tested for antiviral activity. Of the series, N-methoxy-nonyl-DNJ and N-butyl-cyclohexyl DNJ were determined to have the best selectivity index against BVDV and HBV, with the N-methoxy analogue being the most potent with micromolar antiviral activity. The results of this antiviral survey and the implications for the mechanism of action and ultimate therapeutic potential of the DNJ-based imino sugars is provided and discussed.


pmid: 10964439
title: Inactivation and clearance of viruses during the manufacture of high purity factor IX
abstract: Haemophilia is a bleeding disorder characterised by a deficiency in Factor IX. Replacement therapy in the form of a Factor IX concentrate is a widely accepted practice. In this paper we describe a double virus inactivated chromatographic process for producing a high purity Factor IX product, MonoFIX((R))-VF. The process involves separation of the prothrombin complex by cryoprecipitation, fraction I precipitation and DEAE-cellulose adsorption, further ion-exchange chromatography of crude Factor IX, followed by solvent/detergent treatment. Heparin affinity chromatography is then used to further purify Factor IX. Final nanofiltration is sequential through 35 nm then 15 nm membrane filters. The principal virus inactivation/removal steps are solvent/detergent treatment and nanofiltration and the partitioning of relevant and model viruses provides further reduction in virus load through the production process.Solvent/detergent treatment was shown to achieve log reduction factors of 4.5 for HIV-1, 5.1 for Sindbis virus, 6.1 for vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), 5.1 for bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and 5.3 for pseudorabies virus (PRV). BVDV is a model for hepatitis C virus (HCV), and pseudorabies virus (PRV), like hepatitis B virus (HBV) is an enveloped DNA virus. Using scaled down models of the production process, we have also demonstrated the neutralization/partitioning of at least 6 logs of hepatitis A virus (HAV) during cryoprecipitation, Fraction I precipitation, and the DEAE adsorption and elution step, and a further 1.6 log reduction in HAV load as a result of heparin affinity chromatography. The log reduction factors for HAV as a result of the second ion-exchange chromatography step and as a result of enhanced neutralisation associated with solvent/detergent treatment were not significant. Nanofiltration was shown to contribute a further log reduction factor of 6.7 for HAV and 5.8 for BVDV indicating that log reduction factors of this order would be obtained with other viruses of a similar or larger size, such as HIV, HBV and HCV.Overall, these studies indicate that MonoFIX-VF is a product with an extremely high level of viral safety.


pmid: 34201706
title: Characterization of a Cytopathogenic Reporter CSFV
abstract: Cytopathogenic (cp) pestiviruses frequently emerge in cattle that are persistently infected with the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) as a consequence of RNA recombination and mutation. They induce apoptosis in infected tissue cultures, are highly attenuated in the immunocompetent host, and unable to establish persistent infections after diaplacental infections. Cp strains of BVDV have been used as naturally attenuated live vaccines and for species-specific plaque reduction tests for the indirect serological detection of BVDV. Here, we present a genetically engineered cp strain of the classical swine fever virus (CSFV). Cytopathogenicity of the strain was induced by the insertion of ubiquitin embedded in a large NS3 to NS4B duplication. The CSFV RNA genome was stabilized by the inactivation of the NS2 autoprotease, hindering the deletion of the insertion and the reversion to a wild-type genome. Additional insertion of a mCherry gene at the 5'-end of the E2 gene allowed fluorescence-verified plaque reduction assays for CSFV, thus providing a novel, cost-efficient diagnostic tool. This genetically stabilized cp CSFV strain could be further used as a basis for potential new modified live vaccines. Taken together, we applied reverse genetics to rationally fixate a typical cp NS3 duplication in a CSFV genome.


pmid: 17947522
title: The Npro product of classical swine fever virus and bovine viral diarrhea virus uses a conserved mechanism to target interferon regulatory factor-3
abstract: Classical swine fever virus (CSFV) is a member of the genus Pestivirus in the family Flaviviridae. The N(pro) product of CSFV targets the host's innate immune response and can prevent the production of type I interferon (IFN). The mechanism by which CSFV orchestrates this inhibition was investigated and it is shown that, like the related pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), this involves the N(pro) protein targeting interferon regulatory factor-3 (IRF-3) for degradation by proteasomes and thus preventing IRF-3 from activating transcription from the IFN-beta promoter. Like BVDV, the steady-state levels of IRF-3 mRNA are not reduced markedly by CSFV infection or N(pro) overexpression. Moreover, IFN-alpha stimulation of CSFV-infected cells induces the antiviral protein MxA, indicating that, as in BVDV-infected cells, the JAK/STAT pathway is not targeted for inhibition.


pmid: 16566255
title: Naturally occurring Mycoplasma bovis-associated pneumonia and polyarthritis in feedlot beef calves
abstract: Mycoplasma bovis is perceived as an emerging cause of mortality in feedlot beef cattle. This study examined the lesions and infectious agents in naturally occurring M. bovis-associated bronchopneumonia and arthritis and the relationship of this condition with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection. Standardized pathologic, immunohistochemical, and microbiologic investigations were conducted on 99 calves that died or were euthanized within 60 days after arrival in 72 feedlots. Cranioventral bronchopneumonia with multiple foci of caseous necrosis was identified in 54 of 99 calves, including 30 with concurrent fibrinosuppurative bronchopneumonia typical of pneumonic pasteurellosis. Mycoplasma bovis was consistently identified in these lesions by culture and immunohistochemistry, but also commonly in healthy lungs and those with pneumonia of other causes. Focal lesions of coagulation necrosis, typical of pneumonic pasteurellosis, were often infected with both Mannheimia haemolytica and M. bovis. Arthritis was present in 25 of 54 (46%) calves with M. bovis pneumonia, and all calves with arthritis had pneumonia. BVDV infection was more common in calves with lesions of bacterial pneumonia than in those dying of other causes, but BVDV infection was not more common in calves with caseonecrotic bronchopneumonia than those with fibrinosuppurative bronchopneumonia. Retrospective analysis identified cases of M. bovis pneumonia in the early 1980s that had milder lesions than the current cases. The findings suggest that, in at least some calves, M. bovis induces caseonecrotic bronchopneumonia within the lesions of pneumonic pasteurellosis.


pmid: 16162364
title: Quantification of economic losses consecutive to infection of a dairy herd with bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Production losses and treatment expenditures consecutive to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection in a dairy herd were calculated by partial budgeting based on published estimates of production effects. Overall costs (losses plus expenditures) resulted in a decreased gross margin of 10.7 euros and 19.0 per 1000 l of milk for an average and severe infection, respectively. With a milk quota system allowing no lease of quota, assuming adjustment of the herd size by the farmer to produce the quota, decrease in gross margin was limited to 7.9 euros and 13.9 per 1000 l of milk.


pmid: 15747873
title: [Cultivation of the vaccine strain of the virus of porcine classic plague]
abstract: Several cell cultures were compared and examined for their capability to support reproduction of Classical Swine Fever Virus (CSFV). Experimental conditions of virus cultivation were optimized. The subculture of primary lamb testicular (LT) cells was selected for large cell cultivation of CSFV. In contrast to many cell lines, these cells were free of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) contamination partly due to liquid nitrogen storage and gamma-ray sterilization of serum used in the growth media. The vaccine strain CS of CSFV was obtained in the titers of 6.7-7.7 TCID50/ml under the optimal conditions of virus reproduction in the LT cells.


pmid: 10855660
title: Experimental inoculation of calves with laboratory strains of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Diarrhea, erosions and ulcers of the oral mucosa, with conjunctival and nasal discharges, were observed in six calves inoculated with a mixture of two laboratory cytopathic reference strains of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)-Oregon C24 V and NADL. The clinical picture was accompanied by biphasic body temperature elevation, transient leukopenia and a decrease in the number of lymphocytes. High dose of viruses and multiple routes of inoculation promoted the development of clinical and hematological changes typical for BVDV infection although laboratory strains were used.


pmid: 1396167
title: [Viral agents as the cause of reproductive disorders in cattle and available vaccines]
abstract: After a review on the viral agents playing a role in diseases of cattle those related to the occurrence in the genital tract are described. They may be causing abortion or local reactions leading to a reduced fertility and/or be of importance for the embryo transfer. Bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BHV1) and the bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) are the agents most widely distributed in Europe. Both are of economic importance, described in detail and vaccines available discussed.


pmid: 34690363
title: RdRp (RNA-dependent RNA polymerase): A key target providing anti-virals for the management of various viral diseases
abstract: With the arrival of the Covid-19 pandemic, anti-viral agents have regained center stage in the arena of medicine. Out of the various drug targets involved in managing RNA-viral infections, the one that dominates almost all RNA viruses is RdRp (RNA-dependent RNA polymerase). RdRp are proteins that are involved in the replication of RNA-based viruses. Inhibition of RdRps has been an integral approach for managing various viral infections such as dengue, influenza, HCV (Hepatitis), BVDV, etc. Inhibition of the coronavirus RdRp is currently rigorously explored for the treatment of Covid-19 related complications. So, keeping in view the importance and current relevance of this drug target, we have discussed the importance of RdRp in developing anti-viral agents against various viral diseases. Different reported inhibitors have also been discussed, and emphasis has been laid on highlighting the inhibitor's pharmacophoric features and SAR profile.


pmid: 24810855
title: Potential applications for antiviral therapy and prophylaxis in bovine medicine
abstract: Viral disease is one of the major causes of financial loss and animal suffering in today's cattle industry. Increases in global commerce and average herd size, urbanization, vertical integration within the industry and alterations in global climate patterns have allowed the spread of pathogenic viruses, or the introduction of new viral species, into regions previously free of such pathogens, creating the potential for widespread morbidity and mortality in naïve cattle populations. Despite this, no antiviral products are currently commercially licensed for use in bovine medicine, although significant progress has been made in the development of antivirals for use against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), foot and mouth disease virus (FMDV) and bovine herpesvirus (BHV). BVDV is extensively studied as a model virus for human antiviral studies. Consequently, many compounds with efficacy have been identified and a few have been successfully used to prevent infection in vivo although commercial development is still lacking. FMDV is also the subject of extensive antiviral testing due to the importance of outbreak containment for maintenance of export markets. Thirdly, BHV presents an attractive target for antiviral development due to its worldwide presence. Antiviral studies for other bovine viral pathogens are largely limited to preliminary studies. This review summarizes the current state of knowledge of antiviral compounds against several key bovine pathogens and the potential for commercial antiviral applications in the prevention and control of several selected bovine diseases.


pmid: 21727071
title: Serological evidence for BVDV-1 infection in goats in Poland - short communication
abstract: A serological survey was conducted in 2007 in the breeding goat population in Poland to gain insights into the epidemiology of pestivirus infection. All breeding herds were included in the study and representative serum samples were taken in each herd to evaluate herd-level seroprevalence at 10% expected individual-level prevalence and 95% level of confidence. Altogether 1060 serum samples from 49 herds were tested with blocking ELISA and then the positive and inconclusive results were confirmed in a serum neutralisation test, which also allowed us to determine the pestivirus species responsible for seroconversion. Herd-level seroprevalence proved to be 10.2% and bovine viral diarrhoea virus type 1 (BVDV-1) was responsible for the seroconversion in seven out of eight cases. In the remaining serum sample the causative virus could not be identified due to a pronounced cross-neutralising activity possibly derived from multiple infections. This is the first report on the diagnosis of BVDV-1 infection in Polish goats.


pmid: 20359898
title: Antiviral activity of benzimidazole derivatives. II. Antiviral activity of 2-phenylbenzimidazole derivatives
abstract: Seventy-six 2-phenylbenzimidazole derivatives were synthesized and evaluated in cell-based assays for cytotoxicity and antiviral activity against a panel of 10 RNA and DNA viruses. The most commonly affected viruses were, in decreasing order, CVB-2, BVDV, Sb-1, HSV-1, and YFV, while HIV-1 and VSV were not affected, and RSV, VV and Reo-1 were only susceptible to a few compounds. Thirty-nine compounds exhibited high activity (EC(50)=0.1-10microM) against at least one virus, and four of them were outstanding for their high and selective activity against VV (24, EC(50)=0.1microM) and BVDV (50, 51, and 53 with EC(50)=1.5, 0.8, and 1.0microM, respectively). The last compounds inhibited at low micromolar concentrations the NS5B RdRp of BVDV and also of HCV, the latter sharing structural similarity with the former. The considered compounds represent attractive leads for the development of antiviral agents against poxviruses, pestiviruses and even HCV, which are important human and veterinary pathogens.


pmid: 18756353
title: Antibody prevalence against respiratory viruses in sheep and goats in North-Western Turkey
abstract: Respiratory viruses may infect both small and large ruminant species, and can be transmitted among those of species. Present study reports presence and serological distribution of bovine respiratory viral infections in sheep and goats in Marmara region of Turkey. Total of 388 sera, 228 from sheep and 160 from goats collected from 4 provinces were analysed. Neutralising antibodies specific to BVDV, BHV-1, BRSV, PI-3, BAV-1 and BAV-3 were investigated. Among 388 serum samples 32.1% were positive for BVDV, 23.0% for BHV-1, 72.9% for BRSV, 13.2% for PI-3, 86.0% for BAV-1 and 93.0% for BAV-3. There were significant differences observed between seroprevalence rates detected in neighbouring provinces. Prevalence of BVDV specific antibodies was extremely higher (p = 0.0009) in sheep, however, BHV-1 (p = 0.0001) and PI-3 (p = 0.0038) were more prevalent in goats. BRSV antibody prevalence was closely related to data obtained from cattle. This study demonstrates that, like in cattle herds, BRSV and adenoviruses are the possible common reason of respiratory diseases in small ruminants in the region.


pmid: 11021996
title: Single amino acid differences are sufficient for CD4(+) T-cell recognition of a heterologous virus by cattle persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Cattle that are persistently infected (PI) with one strain of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) can resolve infection with a second, antigenically heterologous strain but not the homologous strain. Since CD4(+) T cells are thought to be critical for the resolution of acute BVDV infection (Howard et al., 1992, Vet. Immunol. Immunopathol. 32, 303-314), we have examined the recognition of a heterologous virus (NADL) by CD4(+) T cells from Pe515-PI animals. The immune response of non-PI control cattle challenged with NADL or Pe515ncp was strain cross-reactive, whereas Pe515-PI animals responded to NADL only. The immune repertoire of both groups included NS3, which differs by approximately 1% (9/683) amino acids between these two viruses. Lymphoproliferative responses to proteins and synthetic peptides corresponding to three nonconservative differences in NS3 demonstrated that CD4(+) T cells from non-PI control animals responded well to proteins but poorly to the peptides from both viruses. In contrast, PI animals were responsive to heterologous proteins and peptides but nonresponsive to the homologous equivalents. A single amino acid difference between the two sequences was sufficient to allow responsiveness.


pmid: 1651034
title: Pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus polypeptides: identification of new precursor proteins and alternative cleavage pathways
abstract: The genome of pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) contains a single 11,964 nt long open reading frame (ORF) that is capable of encoding a 449 kDa putative polyprotein. Although previous studies have described many virus-coded polypeptides that are believed to arise by post- and/or co-translational proteolytic processing in infected cells, there are two separate regions in the ORF for which no polypeptide products could be identified. In the present study using site specific antisera, we identified two new large proteins of Mr 175 and 172 kDa which encompass two previously described smaller precursor proteins, p125 and p133, respectively. These two large precursor proteins together with two other previously described proteins p22 and gp118 (Mr approx. 84 kDa; unglycosylated) account for the predicted Mr of the putative 449 kDa polyprotein precursor. Furthermore, we discovered three additional polypeptides of Mr 168, 96 and 72 kDa encoded by the last third of the genome. These proteins may arise by an alternative cleavage pathway of the precursor protein p172. A modified and updated map of BVDV ORF incorporating the above findings is presented.


pmid: 32129636
title: An assessment of bovine herpes virus 4 as a causative agent in abortions and neonatal death
abstract: Numerous viruses, including bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), bovine herpes virus 1 (BoHV-1) and bovine herpes virus 4 (BoHV-4), and other pathogens are the most common causes of reproductive disorders and are responsible for huge economic losses in livestock production. This study investigates the aetiological role of BoHV-4 in fertility problems such as abortions, stillbirth and birth with unviable calves. Retrospective samples from 38 animals, including 17 aborting cows, 17 aborted foetuses, three stillborn calves and one unviable newborn calf were analysed. The BoHV-4 genome was detected in 25 (65.7%) animals by polymerase chain reaction. In 14 of these infected animals, we detected co-infection with BVDV, while the co-presence of BoHV-1 was also detected in one animal. In addition to the high prevalence of BoHV-4 genome in materials related to fertility problems, isolation of BoHV-4 from the brain of one stillborn calf indicated a causal link between BoHV-4 and fertility problems, such as abortion, stillbirths or birth with unviable calves.


pmid: 30902184
title: Border disease in cattle
abstract: Within the family Flaviviridae, viruses within the genus Pestivirus, such as Border disease virus (BDV) of sheep, can cause great economic losses in farm animals. Originally, the taxonomic classification of pestiviruses was based on the host species they were isolated from, but today, it is known that many pestiviruses exhibit a broad species tropism. This review provides an overview of BDV infection in cattle. The clinical, hematological and pathological-anatomical findings in bovines that were transiently or persistently infected with BDV largely resemble those in cattle infected with the closely related pestivirus bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). Accordingly, the diagnosis of BDV infection can be challenging, as it must be differentiated from various pestiviruses in cattle. The latter is very relevant in countries with control programs to eradicate BVDV in Bovidae, as in most circumstances, pestivirus infections in sheep, which act as reservoir for BDV, are not included in the eradication scheme. Interspecies transmission of BDV between sheep and cattle occurs regularly, but BDV in cattle appears to be of minor general importance. Nevertheless, BDV outbreaks at farm or local level can be very costly.


pmid: 25185664
title: Viral infection risks for patients using the finished product Hirudo verbana (medicinal leech)
abstract: The virological safety of medicinal leeches has to be ensured prior to their use on patients. While leeches can be kept and bred under standardized conditions, feeding them horse blood adds a non-standardized component, which poses some risk of infection of the treated patients. Here, we investigated the speed at which blood-borne viruses are degraded by the microbial flora in the leech intestine, in order to define the safety of the product and the length of the necessary quarantine period prior to its administration to patients. Feeding blood was spiked with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), reovirus, and murine parvovirus (10(7) ID₅₀ ml(-1)). The virus titer in the intestinal contents of the leeches was determined using permissive cell cultures and compared to that of the original virus titer at the following time points: immediately after feeding; after 3, 14, and 30 days; and monthly thereafter until the 7th month. The BVDV titer was below the detection limit of 10(1) TCID₅₀ ml(-1) after 3 months, while reovirus and murine parvovirus titers were undetectable after 4 months. No positive virus findings were obtained at later time points. Thus, when fed the blood of vertebrates, the finished product "Medicinal leech, Hirudo verbana" can be considered virologically safe if the animals are maintained at 20 °C, which corresponds to their natural habitat conditions and ensures a high metabolic rate. Therefore, after the last feeding, a quarantine period of 4-6 months and appropriate care at room temperature, which supports microbial degradation and digestive processes, are recommended.


pmid: 34960700
title: An Importance of Long-Term Clinical Analysis to Accurately Diagnose Calves Persistently and Acutely Infected by Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus 2
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection results in a wide variety of clinical manifestations and is a pathogen that is able to cause huge economic losses in the cattle industry worldwide. It is important to identify cattle that are persistently infected (PI) by BVDV within the herd as early as possible because PI animals are the main reservoir of the virus. In contrast, cattle who are acutely infected (AI) with BVDV show various clinical signs, but most cattle show either mild symptoms or are asymptomatic. In general, AI and PI animals can be distinguished by repeat testing within an interval of at least 21 days. However, we found a rare case of a BVDV2-infected AI animal with long-term viral presence, making it indistinguishable from PI through two tests within an interval of 21 days. As a result, we diagnosed one infected animal as AI after 35 days from the initial sample collection via multiple analyses. Our findings recommend performing an additional test using samples that have been collected after 14-21 days from the second sample collection in cases where it is difficult to accurately differentiate an AI diagnosis from a PI diagnosis after only two tests. Additionally, our analysis exhibits that monitoring the number of copies of viruses with similar genomes in the sera by means of quantitative real-time RT-PCR through several sample collections periods might be useful to distinguish AI from PI. Furthermore, our data suggest that the AI animals with a long-term viral presence who show test results similar to those of PI animals might be the result of a coincidental combination of various factors that are present in cattle fields. These findings provide useful information that can be used to improve the diagnosis of BVDV in the field.


pmid: 34330023
title: Do modified live virus vaccines against bovine viral diarrhea induce fetal cross-protection against HoBi-like Pestivirus?
abstract: Bovine Pestivirus heterogeneity is a major challenge for vaccines against bovine viral diarrhea (BVD). In breeding herds, fetal protection is a high priority issue. To some degree, fetal infections in vaccinated heifers have been attributed to the antigenic diversity of bovine Pestiviruses. The purpose of this study was to assess fetal protection against a divergent bovine Pestivirus (Hobi-like Pestivirus, HoBiPeV) with a commercially available modified live vaccine (MLV) claiming fetal protection against BVDV 1 and BVDV 2 up to one year after the first inoculation. Five vaccinated and four unvaccinated heifers were challenged by intranasal inoculation with the HoBiPeV Italy-1/10-1 strain between 82 and 89 days after insemination, i.e. between 4 and 6 months after vaccination. At challenge, neutralizing antibody titers to HoBiPeV in vaccinated heifers were low or even undetectable. Of the four unvaccinated heifers, one control animal aborted (fetus not available) and the remaining three gave birth to HoBiPeV positive calves. Among the heifers of the vaccinated group, one aborted the fetus in the sixth month of pregnancy, which tested Pestivirus negative, while three others gave birth to healthy, HoBiPeV negative calves; the remaining heifer delivered one HoBiPeV positive calf. The results suggest that the BVDV vaccine might be able to elicit a partial fetal protection against HobiPeV, even in absence of a strong specific antibody response.


pmid: 34204224
title: A β-Hairpin Motif in the Envelope Protein E2 Mediates Receptor Binding of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus
abstract: Pestivirus envelope protein E2 is crucial to virus infection and accomplishes virus-receptor interaction during entry. However, mapping of E2 residues mediating these interactions has remained unexplored. In this study, to investigate the structure-function relationship for a β-hairpin motif exposed to the solvent in the crystal structure of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) E2, we designed two amino acidic substitutions that result in a change of electrostatic potential. First, using wild type and mutant E2 expressed as soluble recombinant proteins, we found that the mutant protein had reduced binding to susceptible cells compared to wild type and diminished ability to inhibit BVDV infection, suggesting a lower affinity for BVDV receptors. We then analyzed the effect of β-hairpin mutations in the context of recombinant viral particles. Mutant viruses recovered from cell culture supernatant after transfection of recombinant RNA had almost completely inhibited ability to re-infect susceptible cells, indicating an impact of mutations on BVDV infectivity. Finally, sequential passaging of the mutant virus resulted in the selection of a viral population in which β-hairpin mutations reverted to the wild type sequence to restore infectivity. Taken together, our results show that this conserved region of the E2 protein is critical for the interaction with host cell receptors.


pmid: 32910985
title: Diphtheric aspergillosis tracheitis with gastrointestinal dissemination secondary to viral infections in a dairy calf
abstract: Diphtheric aspergillosis tracheitis is an uncommon syndrome described in human pathology, usually associated with immunosuppression in the affected individuals. Interestingly, no comparative/equivalent cases were found in domestic animals. This report describes the pathological and mycological findings associated with diphtheric aspergillosis tracheitis in an immunocompromised calf. The main pathological findings were diphtheric tracheitis and rhinitis, and necrotizing ruminitis associated with intralesional septate, acute branching fungal hyphae consistent with Aspergillus spp. Mycological culture and isolation confirmed the fungal hyphae as A. fumigatus due to characteristic features. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) assays identified intralesional antigens of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and malignant catarrhal fever virus (MCFV) at the trachea and small intestine; IHC detected intralesional antigens of bovine alphaherpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1) only at the trachea. These findings confirmed the simultaneous occurrence of A. fumigatus with concomitant infections due to BVDV, MCFV, and BoHV-1 in this calf. Since ovine gammaherpesvirus-2 (OvHV-2) is the cause of MCF in Brail, it is likely that the intralesional MCFV antigens identified were those of OvHV-2. In this case, disseminated aspergillosis was probably associated with the undeveloped immunological status of the calf that was further impaired due to the combined immunodepressive effects of BVDV and BoHV-1 infections. Although BVDV and BoHV-1 are infectious disease pathogens frequently associated with the development of bovine respiratory disease (BRD) in feedlot and dairy cattle, the identification of intralesional OvHV-2-like antigens in several parts of the lungs suggest that this MCFV also played a role in the BRD-associated lesions identified in this calf.


pmid: 16460350
title: Oesophagoscopy and detection of viral nucleic acids in oesophageal biopsies--A contribution to BVDV diagnosis
abstract: The endoscopic appearance of the oesophagus of animals infected with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) but without signs of acute mucosal disease (MD) was investigated for any common or 'early warning' lesions. Thirty-seven BVDV-infected animals [36 persistently infected (PI) and one transiently infected] were examined clinically and endoscopically for typical erosions of the oronasal and oesophageal mucosa, respectively. During oesophagoscopy, mucosal biopsies were taken and tested for pestivirus-specific nucleic acids by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The results were compared with those of RT-PCR with various sample materials (blood, nasal and conjunctival swabs and faecal samples) usually used for routine diagnosis of BVDV infection. The average age of the 36 PI animals was 13.5 months, eight animals were 24 months or older. None of the PI animals had clinically visible erosions of the oronasal mucous membranes. During oesophagoscopy, all animals showed a reddening but unexpectedly no erosions or ulcerations of the oesophageal mucosa. Although in 21 of 36 PI animals all samples tested positive, the oesophageal biopsies were with no exception constantly RT-PCR positive in contrast to all other materials investigated. Remarkably, in the transiently infected animal all samples tested negative except for the oesophageal biopsy. Hence, this infection would have been missed by conventional diagnostic sampling.


pmid: 25975666
title: Influence of the retention of PI calves identified in 2012 during the voluntary phase of the Irish national bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) eradication programme on herd-level outcomes in 2013
abstract: This study was undertaken to investigate the impact of the retention of calves born in one calving season and considered to be persistently infected (PI) with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) on herd-level outcomes in the following calving season. A secondary aim was to investigate the relationship between retention and the number of BVD+ calves detected the following season. The study population included a subset of herds enrolled in the 2012 voluntary BVD eradication programme in Ireland, specifically those with a birth registered to more than 80% of the cows between 1st January and 15th July and BVDV test results available for at least 80% of these calves, during both 2012 and 2013. Calves were considered PI based on either an initial positive result without further testing (BVDPOS) or a positive result on confirmatory testing (BVDPI), collectively considered BVD+ calves. Herd-level outcomes included the BVD status of the herd, and the number of BVD+ calves born between 1st January and 15th July 2013 (the study period). There was a significant univariable association between herd BVD status in 2013 and a number of general herd factors, including location, herd type, size and number of introduced animals (overall and those pregnant at time of introduction), as well as with each of six different factors related to the retention of virus-positive calves: the number of BVD+ calves in 2012; the maximum time (days) any one BVD+ born in 2012 was retained up to September 2013; the mean time (days) BVD+ animal(s) born in 2012 were retained up to September 2013; the date (quarter/year) the last BVD+ left the herd; the presence/number of 2012-born BVD+ retained in the herd at 1st January 2013. Separate multivariable models were constructed for each retention variable. The best model fit (based on AIC) was obtained using the retention variable "date (quarter/year) last BVD+ calf left the herd", followed by "total time all BVD+ calves were retained in the herd", with (log) herd size also retained in the models. Significant differences were also found in the number of positive calves detected in positive herds in 2013 for all of the calf retention risk factors. These findings confirm an increased probability of finding a BVD+ animal in a herd following the retention of positive calves born in the previous calving season, highlighting the importance of their prompt removal.


pmid: 25486086
title: Development of a RT-PCR ELISA for simultaneous detection of BVDV-1, BVDV-2 and BDV in ruminants and its evaluation on clinical samples
abstract: The aim of this study was to develop a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction ELISA (RT-PCR ELISA) for detection of ruminant pestiviruses and to evaluate its diagnostic performance on clinical samples obtained from cattle, sheep and goats. Optimization was carried out by serial dilution of home-made digoxygenin-labelled RT-PCR product standards obtained from pestivirus isolates and pestivirus infected animals. The detection limit of the assay was 10TCID50/ml, similar to virus isolation and real-time RT-PCR but 10-fold higher than RT-PCR. The assay had high analytical specificity along with a good reproducibility. When the assay was evaluated on the samples obtained from animals infected experimentally with BVDV and from the field using virus isolation as standard, it showed a high diagnostic sensitivity (95.9%) and specificity (98.6%) and there was strong agreement (97.5% concordance) between the two tests. However, it displayed an increased diagnostic specificity and sensitivity over RT-PCR. Additionally, when a few samples (n=26) were tested by RT-PCR ELISA and real-time RT-PCR, 100% concordance was obtained between them. Our results showed that RT-PCR ELISA can be a rapid, cost effective and alternative molecular diagnostic test for simultaneous detection of BVDV-1, BVDV-2 and BDV in ruminants in ordinary laboratory settings.


pmid: 19892497
title: Characterization of a new chimeric marker vaccine candidate with a mutated antigenic E2-epitope
abstract: A new chimeric pestivirus "CP7_E1E2alf_TLA", based on the infectious cDNA of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strain CP7, was constructed. The substitution of BVDV E1 and E2 with the respective proteins of classical swine fever (CSF) strain Alfort 187 allows an optimal heterodimerization of E1 and E2 in the chimeric virus, which is beneficial for efficient and authentic virus assembly and growth. In addition, for implementation of E2-based marker diagnostics, the previously described antigenic CSFV-specific TAVSPTTLR epitope was exchanged with the corresponding E2-epitope of BVDV strain CP7. Recombinant virus CP7_E1E2alf_TLA displayed a growth defect, and was not reacting with monoclonal antibodies used in commercial E2 antibody blocking ELISAs. Therefore, efficacy as well as marker properties of CP7_E1E2alf_TLA were investigated in an animal experiment with both a high dose and a low dose vaccine preparation. All CP7_E1E2alf_TLA-vaccinated animals seroconverted until day 28 post-vaccination with neutralizing antibodies. Furthermore, at the day of challenge infection CP7_E1E2alf_TLA-immunized animals showed distinct lower ELISA values in a commercial CSFV E2 antibody test in comparison to the C-strain vaccinated controls. However, E2-ELISA reactivity as well as neutralizing titers were directly connected to the dosage used for vaccination, and only the low dose group had E2-ELISA values below threshold until challenge infection. Following challenge infection with highly virulent CSFV strain Koslov, all vaccinees were protected, however, short-term fever episodes and very limited CSFV genome detection with very low copy numbers could be observed. In conclusion, manipulation of the TAVSPTTLR-epitope within the tested chimeric virus resulted in an slightly reduced efficacy, but the E2 marker properties unexpectedly did not allow a clear differentiation of infected from vaccinated animals in some cases.


pmid: 15001348
title: Excision of incorporated nucleotide analogue chain-terminators can diminish their inhibitory effects on viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerases
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is amongst the best-characterized members of the Flaviviridae, that includes the hepatitis C virus (HCV). The virally encoded RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) plays a crucial role during replication and therefore represents an important target for the development of antiviral drugs. Here we studied biochemical mechanisms associated with the inhibition of BVDV RNA synthesis by 2'-hydroxyl, 3'-deoxynucleoside triphosphates (3'-dNTPs). All four nucleotide analogues are effectively incorporated and act as chain-terminators. However, relatively low, physiologically relevant concentrations of pyrophosphate (PPi) are sufficient to drive the reaction backwards, which results in primer unblocking and rescue of RNA synthesis. Metal ion requirements for nucleotide incorporation and pyrophosphorolysis are similar; the efficiency of both reactions is higher with Mn2+ as compared to Mg2+. Complexes containing chain-terminated primer strands are stable in the presence of heparin, which increases the probability that pyrophosphorolysis occurs before the enzyme can dissociate from its nucleic acid substrate. In contrast to the reverse transcriptase of the human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1 RT), the BVDV RdRp may not recruit NTP pools as PPi donors. Conversely, we found that the efficiency of primer unblocking is severely compromised in the presence of increasing concentrations of the NTP that is complementary to the next template position. These data suggest that the incoming NTP can access its designated binding site, which, in turn, prevents the catalytically competent complexation of PPi. The results of this study provide novel insights into mechanisms involved in pyrophosphorolysis associated with viral RdRps, and suggest that the excision reaction is likely to be an important parameter that can affect susceptibility to nucleotide analogue inhibitors directed against viral RdRps.


pmid: 8236781
title: Comparative hybridization and nucleotide sequence information from two noncytopathic isolates of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Comparative hybridizations of 8 cytopathic (CP) and 11 noncytopathic (NCP) isolates of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were done using 4 different cDNA hybridization probes. The hybridization probes were prepared from cDNA synthesized from 1 CP BVDV (NADL) and 2 NCP BVDV isolates (SD-1 and NY-1) within the p80 region and from cDNA spanning the 5' untranslated region of NCP SD-1. Hybridization with the 5'/SD-1 probe detected 19 out of 19 isolates, whereas the p80/NADL, p80/NY-1 and p80/SD-1 hybridization probes detected only 12, 16 and 13 isolates, respectively. To determine the basis for the different patterns of hybridization, the nucleotide sequence was determined for the p80/NY-1. The nucleotide sequence was compared with the published CP NADL and CP Osloss and NCP SD-1 and NCP1 nucleotide sequences and in 45% of the base differences between NY-1 and NADL, NY-1 and Osloss were divergent from NADL, SD-1 and NCP1. Based on comparative nucleotide sequence data and the different reactivities of the p80/NADL, p80/NY-1 and p80/SD-1 hybridization probes the relationships of the various test isolates were characterized.


pmid: 26030150
title: Environmental Factors Influencing White-Tailed Deer (Odocoileus virginianus) Exposure to Livestock Pathogens in Wisconsin
abstract: White-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) are commonly exposed to disease agents that affect livestock but environmental factors that predispose deer to exposure are unknown for many pathogens. We trapped deer during winter months on two study areas (Northern Forest and Eastern Farmland) in Wisconsin from 2010 to 2013. Deer were tested for exposure to six serovars of Leptospira interrogans (grippotyphosa, icterohaemorrhagiae, canicola, bratislava, pomona, and hardjo), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV-1 and BVDV-2), infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBR), and parainfluenza 3 virus (PI3). We used logistic regression to model potential intrinsic (e.g., age, sex) and extrinsic (e.g., land type, study site, year, exposure to multiple pathogens) variables we considered biologically meaningful to exposure of deer to livestock pathogens. Deer sampled in 2010-2011 did not demonstrate exposure to BVDV, so we did not test for BVDV in subsequent years. Deer had evidence of exposure to PI3 (24.7%), IBR (7.9%), Leptospira interrogans serovar pomona (11.7%), L. i. bratislava (1.0%), L. i. grippotyphosa (2.5%) and L. i. hardjo (0.3%). Deer did not demonstrate exposure to L. interrogans serovars canicola and icterohaemorrhagiae. For PI3, we found that capture site and year influenced exposure. Fawns (n = 119) were not exposed to L. i. pomona, but land type was an important predictor of exposure to L. i. pomona for older deer. Our results serve as baseline exposure levels of Wisconsin white-tailed deer to livestock pathogens, and helped to identify important factors that explain deer exposure to livestock pathogens.


pmid: 20872289
title: Evaluation of three experimental bovine viral diarrhea virus killed vaccines adjuvanted with combinations of Quil A cholesterol and dimethyldioctadecylammonium (DDA) bromide
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections cause respiratory, reproductive, and enteric disease in cattle. Vaccination raises herd resistance and limits the spread of BVDV among cattle. Both killed and modified live vaccines against BVDV are available. While modified live vaccines elicit an immune response with a broader range and a longer duration of immunity, killed vaccines are considered to be safer. One way to improve the performance of killed vaccines is to develop new adjuvants. The goal of this research was evaluate new adjuvants, consisting of combinations of Quil A cholesterol and dimethyldioctadecylammonium (DDA) bromide, for use in killed vaccines. Responses to three novel killed vaccines, using combinations of Quil A and DDA as adjuvants, were compared to responses to a commercial modified live and a commercial killed vaccine. Vaccination response was monitored by measuring viral neutralizing antibodies (VN) levels and by response to challenge. All three novel vaccines were efficacious based on reduction in virus isolation, pyrexia, and depression. Compared to a commercial killed vaccine, the three novel vaccines elicited higher VN levels and reduced injection site inflammation.


pmid: 19641046
title: Apoptosis in lymphoid tissues of calves inoculated with non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus genotype 1: activation of effector caspase-3 and role of macrophages
abstract: The mechanisms responsible for lymphocyte apoptosis in bovine viral diarrhoea have not yet been clarified. Previous work suggests that bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is only directly responsible for the destruction of a small number of lymphocytes. The aim of this study was to clarify, in vivo, the role of macrophages in lymphocyte destruction through indirect mechanisms linked to the biosynthetic activation of these immunocompetent cells on ileal Peyer's patches, as well as the distribution and quantification of apoptosis. Eight colostrum-deprived calves were inoculated intranasally with a non-cytopathic strain of BVDV genotype 1 and killed in batches of two at 3, 6, 9 and 14 days post-inoculation (p.i.). The progressive depletion of Peyer's patches was found to be due to massive lymphocyte apoptosis, with an increase in cleaved caspase-3 and TUNEL-positive cells. Lymphoid depletion was accompanied, from 3 days p.i., by a significant rise in macrophage numbers both in lymphoid follicles and in interfollicular areas. Some macrophages showed signs of viral infection, together with subcellular changes indicative of phagocyte activation and, in some cases, of secretory activity. However, the number of macrophages that showed positive immunostaining for tumour necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1alpha, cytokines with a proven ability to induce apoptosis, remained low throughout the experiment in lymphoid follicles, where most apoptotic cells were found. These results thus appear to rule out a major involvement of macrophages and macrophage-secreted chemical mediators in the apoptosis of follicular B lymphocytes during BVDV infection.


pmid: 21470568
title: Genetic change in the open reading frame of bovine viral diarrhea virus is introduced more rapidly during the establishment of a single persistent infection than from multiple acute infections
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) are ubiquitous viral pathogens of cattle with a high degree of sequence diversity amongst strains circulating in livestock herds. The driving force behind change in sequence is not well established but the inaccurate replication of the genomic RNA by a viral RNA polymerase without proof-reading capabilities as well as immune pressure on immunodominant proteins are thought to play major roles. Additionally, it is not clear when the majority of changes are introduced, whether during acute infections with exposure to innate and adaptive immune responses or in establishment of persistent infections (PI) in utero. To examine which generates greater sequence diversity, two groups of viruses were compared. The first was six isolates of a single strain of BVDV-2 that were isolated over greater than a year's time. These viruses caused a series of severe acute (SA) BVD outbreaks over a large geographic area. Changes in nucleotide sequence were determined by comparison of the sequence of each strain to the six virus consensus sequence. The second group was composed of six BVDV strains isolated from PI calves whose dams were exposed to PI cattle. Changes were identified by comparison of the sequence of the progenitor PI virus to that of the progeny viruses from the single in vivo 'passage'. The open reading frames (ORF) of the six SA isolates were >99% identical at the nucleotide level with 30% of the changes being nonsynonymous changes. The amount of genetic change increased with time and distance from the original outbreak. Similarly, the PI viruses isolated from single passage PI calves had >99% identity with the progenitor virus. The number of nucleotide changes in these viruses was equal to or greater than that observed in the SA viruses. The majority of the nonsynonymous changes were found in the structural proteins, with 65% of these occurring in the immunodominant E2 protein. Antigenic mapping studies using a monoclonal antibody panel specific for the BVDV E2 protein showed no antigenic differences amongst the six SA viruses, nor between the progenitor and progeny type 1a and type 2 persistent viruses. However, antigenic differences were observed in the two type 1b progeny viruses that possessed the greatest number of amino acid changes. Two antibodies were found to have altered staining patterns. These results suggest that the establishment of a single persistent infection results in more rapid generation of genetic diversity in BVDV strains than a series of acute infections and may contribute to antigenic change in the absence of an immune response.


pmid: 33970345
title: Detection and genotyping of bovine viral diarrhea virus found contaminating commercial veterinary vaccines, cell lines, and fetal bovine serum lots originating in Mexico
abstract: In this communication, we report the presence of RNA of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) as a contaminant of different biological products used in Mexico for veterinary vaccine production. For this purpose, six batches of monovalent vaccines, eight cell line batches used for vaccine production, and 10 fetal bovine serum lots (FBS) commercially available in Mexico from different suppliers were tested by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Viral RNA was detected in 62.5% of the samples analyzed. Phylogenetic analysis revealed the presence of the subgenotypes BVDV-1a, 1b, and BVDV-2a in the tested samples. Collectively, these findings indicate that contamination by BVDV RNA occurs in commercial vaccines and reagents used in research and production of biological products. The ramifications of this contamination are discussed.


pmid: 32484424
title: Sequential exposure to bovine viral diarrhea virus and bovine coronavirus results in increased respiratory disease lesions: clinical, immunologic, pathologic, and immunohistochemical findings
abstract: Bovine coronaviruses (BoCVs) have been found in respiratory tissues in cattle and frequently associated with bovine respiratory disease (BRD); however, pathogenesis studies in calves are limited. To characterize the pathogenesis and pathogenicity of BoCV isolates, we used 5 different BoCV strains to inoculate colostrum-deprived calves, ~ 2-5 wk of age. Later, to determine if dual viral infection would potentiate pathogenicity of BoCV, calves were inoculated with BoCV alone, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) alone, or a series of dual-infection (BVDV-BoCV) schemes. A negative control group was included in all studies. Clinical signs and body temperature were monitored during the study and samples collected for lymphocyte counts, virus isolation, and serology. During autopsy, gross lesions were recorded and fixed tissues collected for histopathology and immunohistochemistry; fresh tissues were collected for virus isolation. Results suggest increased pathogenicity for isolate BoCV OK 1776. Increased body temperature was found in all virus-inoculated groups. Lung lesions were present in calves in all dual-infection groups; however, lesions were most pronounced in calves inoculated with BVDV followed by BoCV inoculation 6 d later. Lung lesions were consistent with mild-to-moderate interstitial pneumonia, and immunohistochemistry confirmed the presence of BoCV antigen. Our studies demonstrated that BVDV-BoCV dual infection may play an important role in BRD pathogenesis, and timing between infections seems critical to the severity of lesions.


pmid: 30828031
title: Assessment of the cost effectiveness of compulsory testing of introduced animals and bulk tank milk testing for bovine viral diarrhea in Japan
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) is a chronic disease of cattle caused by infection with BVD virus (BVDV) and can result in economic losses within the livestock industry. In Japan, the test and culling policy is a basic control measure, and implementation of an adequate vaccination program is recommended as a national policy. In addition, optional control measures, including compulsory testing of introduced animals and bulk tank milk (BTM) testing as a mass screening method, are used in several provinces, but their efficacy has not been completely assessed. We evaluated these control measures using the scenario tree model of BVD in Japan, developed in the previous study. The model outputs indicated that compulsory testing of all introduced cattle, rather than only heifers and/or non-vaccinated cattle, was cost effective and reduced the risk of BVDV introduction due to animal movement and that BTM testing could effectively monitor most part of the cattle population. Vaccination coverage and BVDV prevalence among introduced cattle could also affect the cost effectiveness of compulsory testing of targeted cattle, particularly under low vaccination coverage or high BVDV prevalence. However, even with the implementation of a highly effective monitoring scheme for many years, BVD risk could not be eliminated; it instead converged at a very low level (0.02%). Disease models with a cost-effective output could be a powerful tool in developing a control scheme for chronic animal diseases, including BVD, with the consent of relevant stakeholders.


pmid: 21470568
title: Genetic change in the open reading frame of bovine viral diarrhea virus is introduced more rapidly during the establishment of a single persistent infection than from multiple acute infections
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) are ubiquitous viral pathogens of cattle with a high degree of sequence diversity amongst strains circulating in livestock herds. The driving force behind change in sequence is not well established but the inaccurate replication of the genomic RNA by a viral RNA polymerase without proof-reading capabilities as well as immune pressure on immunodominant proteins are thought to play major roles. Additionally, it is not clear when the majority of changes are introduced, whether during acute infections with exposure to innate and adaptive immune responses or in establishment of persistent infections (PI) in utero. To examine which generates greater sequence diversity, two groups of viruses were compared. The first was six isolates of a single strain of BVDV-2 that were isolated over greater than a year's time. These viruses caused a series of severe acute (SA) BVD outbreaks over a large geographic area. Changes in nucleotide sequence were determined by comparison of the sequence of each strain to the six virus consensus sequence. The second group was composed of six BVDV strains isolated from PI calves whose dams were exposed to PI cattle. Changes were identified by comparison of the sequence of the progenitor PI virus to that of the progeny viruses from the single in vivo 'passage'. The open reading frames (ORF) of the six SA isolates were >99% identical at the nucleotide level with 30% of the changes being nonsynonymous changes. The amount of genetic change increased with time and distance from the original outbreak. Similarly, the PI viruses isolated from single passage PI calves had >99% identity with the progenitor virus. The number of nucleotide changes in these viruses was equal to or greater than that observed in the SA viruses. The majority of the nonsynonymous changes were found in the structural proteins, with 65% of these occurring in the immunodominant E2 protein. Antigenic mapping studies using a monoclonal antibody panel specific for the BVDV E2 protein showed no antigenic differences amongst the six SA viruses, nor between the progenitor and progeny type 1a and type 2 persistent viruses. However, antigenic differences were observed in the two type 1b progeny viruses that possessed the greatest number of amino acid changes. Two antibodies were found to have altered staining patterns. These results suggest that the establishment of a single persistent infection results in more rapid generation of genetic diversity in BVDV strains than a series of acute infections and may contribute to antigenic change in the absence of an immune response.


pmid: 19041350
title: The viral RNase E(rns) prevents IFN type-I triggering by pestiviral single- and double-stranded RNAs
abstract: Interferon (IFN) type-I is of utmost importance in the innate antiviral defence of eukaryotic cells. The cells express intra- and extracellular receptors that monitor their surroundings for the presence of viral genomes. Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), a Pestivirus of the family Flaviviridae, is able to prevent IFN synthesis induced by poly(IC), a synthetic dsRNA. The evasion of innate immunity might be a decisive ability of BVDV to establish persistent infection in its host. We report that ds- as well as ssRNA fragments of viral origin are able to trigger IFN synthesis, and that the viral envelope glycoprotein E(rns), that is also secreted from infected cells, is able to inhibit IFN expression induced by these extracellular viral RNAs. The RNase activity of E(rns) is required for this inhibition, and E(rns) degrades ds- and ssRNA at neutral pH. In addition, cells infected with a cytopathogenic strain of BVDV contain more dsRNA than cells infected with the homologous non-cytopathogenic strain, and the intracellular viral RNA was able to excite the IFN system in a 5'-triphosphate-, i.e. RIG-I-, independent manner. Functionally, E(rns) might represent a decoy receptor that binds and enzymatically degrades viral RNA that otherwise might activate the IFN defence by binding to Toll-like receptors of uninfected cells. Thus, the pestiviral RNase efficiently manipulates the host's self-nonself discrimination to successfully establish and maintain persistence and immunotolerance.


pmid: 16774794
title: Simulation study to assess the efficiency of a test-and-cull scheme to control the spread of the bovine viral-diarrhoea virus in a dairy herd
abstract: To control the spread of bovine viral-diarrhoea virus (BVDV), test-and-cull schemes have been used in Scandinavian countries, with success, when combined with strict control of new animal introductions into herds. In situations where BVDV reintroduction is likely to occur, it is necessary to assess precisely the expected efficiency of test-and-cull schemes. The objective of this study was to compare, by simulation, the persistence and consequences of BVDV infection in a fully susceptible dairy herd with either a test-and-cull scheme or no control action. We used a stochastic individual-based model representing the herd structure as groups of animals, herd dynamics, the contact structure within the herd and virus transmission. After an initial introduction of the virus into a fully susceptible herd, the frequency of purchases of animals that introduced the virus was simulated as high, intermediate or null. Virus persistence and epidemic size (total number of animals infected) were simulated over 10 years. The test-and-cull reduced the epidemic size and the number of days the virus was present except in herds with complete prevention of contact between groups of animals. Where no virus was reintroduced, virus persistence did not exceed 6 years with a test-and-cull scheme, whereas the virus was still present 10 years after the virus introduction in some replications with no control action (<2%). Where frequent purchases were made that led to virus introduction (6 within 10 years), with an intermediate virus transmission between groups, the probability of virus persistence 10 years after the first virus introduction fell from 31% to 8% with the test-and-cull scheme (compared to the do-nothing strategy). Within the newly infected herd, the test-and-cull scheme had no effect, on inspection, on the number of PI births, embryonic deaths or abortions over 10 years. Given this, the economic efficiency of the test-and-cull scheme should be further investigated.


pmid: 14742201
title: Effects of interferon, ribavirin, and iminosugar derivatives on cells persistently infected with noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Persistent infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a major cause of chronic hepatitis in humans. In chronic carriers, the viral infection induces liver damage that predisposes the patient for cirrhosis and can lead to hepatocellular carcinoma. Current chemotherapies are limited to alpha interferon (IFN-alpha) used either alone or in combination with ribavirin (RBV). In addition to its limited efficacy, this treatment is frequently poorly tolerated because of its side effects. The urgently needed development of new drugs is made difficult by the lack of an in vitro or in vivo infectivity model, and no cell line has been found so far to reliably and reproducibly support HCV infection. For this reason, the closely related pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has sometimes been used as a surrogate in vitro infectivity model. In this study we used an MDBK cell line persistently infected with noncytopathic BVDV to assess the antiviral effect of IFN-alpha and RBV, the two drugs currently in clinical use against HCV. The same system was then used to evaluate the potential of two classes of iminosugar derivates to clear noncytopathic BVDV infection from MDBK cells. We show that treatment with long-alkyl-chain deoxynojirimycin derivatives, which are inhibitors of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident alpha-glucosidases, can greatly reduce the amount of secreted enveloped viral RNA. Long-alkyl-chain deoxygalactonojirimycin derivatives, which do not inhibit ER alpha-glucosidases, were less potent but still more effective in this system than IFN-alpha or ribavirin.


pmid: 8203115
title: Cloning, sequencing, and in vitro expression of glycoprotein gp48 of a noncytopathogenic strain of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Total cellular and viral RNA isolated from cells infected with noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strain 2724 was used for reverse transcription of viral specific sequences encoding the putative signal sequence and protein-encoding region of gp48. The cDNA template was amplified twice by the polymerase chain reaction with a nested set of primers designed from nucleotide sequences of cytopathic BVDV strains NADL and 72, and ligated into a plasmid vector. Nucleotide sequence analysis of the cloned cDNA indicated it was 921 base pairs long, encoded 307 amino acid residues, had high sequence homology to other pestiviruses, and had no significant homology to members of the Flaviviridae. In vitro expression of the cDNA yielded a 30 kDa protein that was precipitated by BVDV polyclonal antiserum. The protein was glycosylated in the presence of canine microsomal membranes to give a 46 kDa product and was secreted into the lumen of the microsomal vesicles. The characteristics of the putative signal peptide were consistent with signal sequences for protein translocation found in eukaryotes. A putative signal peptidase cleavage site was identified at a glycine residue at amino acid position 270. Based on signal peptidase cleavage of gp 48 and lack of a membrane anchor, we proposed that gp48 is a glycosylated protein lacking a transmembrane domain, and is analogous to the glycosylated secreted portion of the pre-M protein of flaviviruses.


pmid: 30315698
title: Infectious Causes of Bovine Abortion in Qazvin Province, Iran
abstract: Abortion in dairy cattle is generally defined as the loss of fetus on days 47-265 of pregnancy and can significantly reduce the income and capital gain of farmers and producers. Therefore, sufficient economical support and preventive measurements are essential for this issue. In this study, genetic materials were extracted from the abomasum rennet, as well as homogenous preparations of brain, kidney, spleen, liver, and lung tissues of 128 aborted fetuses. Afterward, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests were performed to identify the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1), Neospora caninum parasite, and serovars of Leptospira species. In the PCR test, the samples with 380 bp, 340 bp, and 173 bp bands were considered as positive for serovars of Leptospira, Neospora caninum, and BHV-1, respectively. Moreover, a 290 bp band was regarded to be BVDV in the RT-PCR. According to the findings of the current study, 39 (30.47%) of the samples were infected with Neospora caninum, 26 (20.31%) with BVDV, 17 (13.28%) with BHV-1, and 18 (14.06%) with serovars of Leptospira. In addition, multiple-agent infections were also detected in the samples. As a conclusion, the microorganism Neospora caninum was identified as the most prevalent infectious cause of abortion in the eight agro-industrial and livestock complexes, in Qazvin province, Iran.


pmid: 1655970
title: Hepatitis C virus: buoyant density of the factor VIII-derived isolate in sucrose
abstract: Physicochemical and molecular characterization studies of hepatitis C virus (HCV), the major causative agent of parenterally transmitted non-A, non-B hepatitis (PT-NANBH), strongly suggest that it is a pesti-/flavivirus-like virus. Additional studies show that the buoyant density of plasma-derived HCV in sucrose is significantly lower than that of most tissue culture-derived flaviviruses (1.20 g/cm3). Our finding suggests, but does not prove, that at least one physicochemical property of HCV is more similar to that of the pestiviruses, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and hog cholera virus (HogCV), than that of the flaviviruses.


pmid: 1693167
title: Cytopathic and non-cytopathic biotypes of border disease virus induce polypeptides of different molecular weight with common antigenic determinants
abstract: Ten monoclonal antibodies have been raised against lysates of cells infected with cytopathic border disease virus (BDV). These antibodies all recognize non-cytopathic BDV and react with a number of different strains of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). Studies with radiolabelled cell lysates show that all the antibodies precipitate two polypeptides of apparent Mr 80,000 and 130,000 from cells infected with cytopathic virus and a single polypeptide of apparent Mr 120,000 from cells infected with non-cytopathic virus. Two of the monoclonal antibodies react on immunoblots and show the same pattern of reactivity indicating that these three polypeptides are antigenically related.


pmid: 27379051
title: Challenges in Identifying and Determining the Impacts of Infection with Pestiviruses on the Herd Health of Free Ranging Cervid Populations
abstract: Although most commonly associated with the infection of domestic livestock, the replication of pestiviruses, in particular the two species of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), occurs in a wide range of free ranging cervids including white-tailed deer, mule deer, fallow deer, elk, red deer, roe deer, eland and mousedeer. While virus isolation and serologic analyses indicate that pestiviruses are circulating in these populations, little is known regarding their impact. The lack of regular surveillance programs, challenges in sampling wild populations, and scarcity of tests and vaccines compound the difficulties in detecting and controlling pestivirus infections in wild cervids. Improved detection rests upon the development and validation of tests specific for use with cervid samples and development and validation of tests that reliably detect emerging pestiviruses. Estimation of impact of pestivirus infections on herd health will require the integration of several disciplines including epidemiology, cervid natural history, veterinary medicine, pathology and microbiology.


pmid: 32481919
title: Cellulose-based polyelectrolyte complex nanoparticles for DNA vaccine delivery
abstract: Cellulose-based nanoparticles were prepared from oppositely charged carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) and quaternized cellulose (QC) in an aqueous medium. The DNA complexing capacity of CMC-QC nanoparticles and the transfection efficiency of the DNA-loaded nanoparticles in COS-7 cells were first investigated using pEGFP-N1-a plasmid DNA encoding the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP)-as a model, and then with a candidate DNA vaccine, pMASIA-tPAs-tE2.2, that has been developed against infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). The results revealed that CMC-QC nanoparticles could bind DNA efficiently, and the optimized DNA-loaded nanoparticles mediated very effective transfection in COS-7 cells, which was comparable to that achieved with Lipofectamine 2000. The novel CMC-QC nanoparticles show promise as a delivery system for DNA vaccines.


pmid: 16169616
title: Assessment of strategies to control BVDV spread in a dairy herd using computer simulation
abstract: The efficiency of a test-and-cull programme to control BVDV spread within a dairy herd was assessed using a stochastic model. A single virus introduction by a non-PI dam carrying a PI foetus was simulated in a typical western-France dairy herd. Herd monitoring in test-and-cull programme enabled us to detect virus spread within 1 year after introduction in 87% of the replications. The test-and-cull programme reduced the length of the virus persistence. The extent of infection was moderately reduced.


pmid: 12114014
title: Probability of and risk factors for introduction of infectious diseases into Dutch SPF dairy farms: a cohort study
abstract: A 2-year cohort study was conducted to investigate the probability of disease introduction into Dutch dairy farms. The farms were tested regularly for diseases and were visited biannually to collect management data. Ninety-five specific pathogen-free (SPF) dairy farms were selected from a database of bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BHV1)-free farms to study the probability of, and risk factors for, introduction of BHV1, bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), Salmonella enterica subsp. enterica serotype Dublin (S. dublin), and Leptospira interrogans serovar hardjo (L. hardjo). Although most of the 95 SPF farms had a low risk on introduction of infectious diseases, one disease was introduced into 12 farms and two diseases were introduced into one farm. Three farms experienced an outbreak of BHV1, one farm an outbreak of L. hardjo, two farms BVDV, six farms S. dublin, and one farm both BHV1 and S. dublin. The total incidence rate was 0.09 (0.06-0.12) per herd-year at risk. The results suggest that the "non-outbreak" farms were significantly more closed than the "outbreak" farms. Direct animal contacts with other cattle should be avoided and professional visitors should be instructed to wear protective clothing before handling cattle.


pmid: 12090799
title: The virucidal spectrum of a high concentration alcohol mixture
abstract: The virucidal spectrum of a high concentration alcohol mixture (80% ethanol and 5% isopropanol) was determined for a broad series of lipid-enveloped (LE) and non-lipid-enveloped (NLE) viruses covering all relevant blood-borne viruses. LE viruses were represented by human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), a specific model virus for hepatitis C virus (HCV), pseudorabies virus (PRV), and vaccinia virus. For the NLE viruses hepatitis A virus, canine parvovirus (a model for human parvovirus B19), and reovirus type 3 (Reo-3) were used. PRV, vaccinia, and Reo-3 served as general model viruses. The alcohol mixture was spiked with 5% (v/v) virus, mixed and tested for residual virus after 5 min treatment. Complete clearance (reduction by a factor of >10(6)) was observed for LE viruses, whereas incomplete to insignificant clearance (ranging from no reduction up to a maximum factor of 10(4)) was found for NLE viruses. In a second series of spiking experiments using the LE viruses BVDV, HIV, and PRV, complete clearance (reduction by a factor of >10(6)) was found after 20 s treatment. These data strongly suggest that treatment with a high concentration alcohol mixture has a high virucidal potential in particular for the blood-borne LE-viruses HIV, hepatitis B virus, and HCV. Such mixtures are well suited for rapid and frequent disinfection in dental practice being non-hazardous and non-toxic.


pmid: 8634024
title: Rapid and sensitive polymerase chain reaction based detection and typing of foot-and-mouth disease virus in clinical samples and cell culture isolates, combined with a simultaneous differentiation with other genomically and/or symptomatically related viruses
abstract: Reverse transcription followed by the polymerase chain reaction method (PCR) allowed the detection of foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV), regardless of the serotype. A primer set corresponding to highly conserved regions of the 2B sequence was selected. By combining in a single reaction tube specific primer pairs for FMDV, swine vesicular disease virus, (SVDV), encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), all four viruses could be identified and differentiated in one amplification reaction, based on the different lengths of the respective amplified segments. In a similar way, FMDV types O, A, C, SAT 2 and Asia 1 could be identified and differentiated, using primers selected from the ID (VP1) genome region. All results were confirmed by direct sequencing of the PCR product. The very fast RNA extraction, reverse transcription and PCR permitted us to read the agarose gels within three hours after samples (cell culture isolates as well as clinical material) arrived, which is of great importance in case of an FMDV suspicion. Furthermore, a very high sensitivity was achieved (less than one PFU). Therefore, our powerful detection assay by means of PCR for FMDV as well as for SVDV, EMCV and BVDV, has advantages compared to the presently used procedures.


pmid: 30348240
title: Comparative study in the control of bovine viral diarrhea
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an important infectious agent affecting herd productivity and reproduction, and leading to massive economic losses. As such, BVD is the subject of a number of control and eradication schemes globally. The key elements of such schemes are: diagnosis and removal of persistently infected animals from herds; implementation of biosecurity practices aimed at preventing the introduction or re-introduction of BVDV in free herds; and ongoing surveillance to monitor the progress of the program and to detect new infections. The objective of this review is to examine the impact of BVD and the management of the disease in three countries: Scotland, Spain, and Argentina, where BVD control programs are in distinct phases: established, developing, and yet to be initiated. This work also sets out to highlight potential difficulties and formulate recommendations for successful BVD control. It concludes that a systematic, countrywide approach is needed to achieve a sustainable decrease in BVD prevalence. The role of vaccines in control programs is concluded to be a valuable additional biosecurity measure. This study also concludes that there are potential wider benefits to a systematic BVD control program, such as a reduction in antimicrobial use and increases in the competitiveness of the cattle industry.


pmid: 22303376
title: Fine Mapping of Loci on BTA2 and BTA26 Associated with Bovine Viral Diarrhea Persistent Infection and Linked with Bovine Respiratory Disease in Cattle
abstract: Bovine respiratory disease (BRD) is considered to be the most costly infectious disease in the cattle industry. Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is one of the pathogens involved with the BRD complex of disease. BVDV infection also negatively impacts cow reproduction and calf performance. Loci associated with persistently infected animals (BVD-PI) and linked with BRD have previously been identified near 14 Mb on bovine chromosome 2 (BTA2) and 15.3 Mb on bovine chromosome 26 (BTA26). The objective of this study was to refine the loci associated with BVD-PI and linked with BRD. Association testing for BVD-PI was performed on a population of 65 BVD-PI calves, 51 of their dams, and 60 unaffected calves (controls) with 142 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) on BTA2 and 173 SNPs on BTA26. Comparisons were made between BVD-PI calves and controls calves and the dams of BVD-PI calves and controls calves. For the linkage analysis of BRD, the same markers were used to genotype two half-sib families consisting of the sires and 72 BRD positive and 148 BRD negative offspring. Using an allelic chi-square test, 11 loci on BTA2 and 8 loci on BTA26 were associated with the dams of the BVD-PI calves (P < 0.05) and 4 loci on BTA2 and 11 loci on BTA26 were associated with BVD-PI calves. This demonstrates that although some of the loci on BTA2 and BTA26 are jointly involved in the fetal and dam response to BVD-PI infection, there are loci that are solely associated with the maternal or fetal susceptibility to disease. One locus on BTA2 and two loci on BTA26 were found to be linked (P < 0.05) with BRD. The regions linked with BRD were also associated with BVD-PI demonstrating that both the broad (BRD) and narrow (BVD-PI) definition of disease identified shared genomic regions as important in disease susceptibility. These results further refined the loci associated with BVD-PI and linked with BRD.


pmid: 18689671
title: Antibodies to selected viral disease agents in wild boars from the Czech Republic
abstract: Blood samples were collected from wild boar (Sus scrofa) shot during the hunting season from 1999 to 2005 in the Czech Republic. Sera were tested by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for the presence of antibodies against classical swine fever virus (CSFV), swine vesicular disease virus (SVDV), Aujeszky's disease virus (ADV), and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Indirect fluorescence antibody test was used for detection of antibodies against porcine circovirus type 2 (PCV-2) and transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV). Antibodies against ADV, BVDV, PCV-2, and TGEV were detected in 30% (101 of 338), 1% (2 of 352), 43% (57 of 134), and 1% (1 of 134) of wild boars, respectively. Sera of 6,471 and 362 tested wild boars were negative for the presence of antibodies against CSFV and SVDV, respectively. This is the first survey of TGEV antibodies in wild boars and the first serologic survey of viral diseases in wild boars in the Czech Republic. Wild boars in the Czech Republic may act as a potential reservoir of ADV and thus have a role in the epidemiology of this disease.


pmid: 15823354
title: Effects of aromatic cationic molecules on bovine viral diarrhea virus and embryonic development
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has been shown to replicate in embryo culture systems and remain associated with bovine embryos developing in vitro. In this study, novel antiviral agents were evaluated for capability to inhibit replication of BVDV without affecting embryonic development. Serial concentrations of 2-[5(6)-{2-imidazolinyl}-2-benzimidazolyl]-5-(4-aminophenyl)furan (DB456) or 2-(4-[2-imidazolinyl]phenyl)-5-(4-methoxyphenyl)furan (DB606) were prepared in IVC medium. Then, bovine uterine tubal epithelial cells (UTC) were placed in IVC media with varying concentrations of DB456 or DB606. Within 1h, a genotype I or II strain of BVDV was added to the cultures. Cultures were maintained for 7 days. Infectious virus was quantitated in IVC media collected on days 3 and 7 and in UTC lysates harvested on day 7. The effective antiviral concentrations of DB606 were much lower than effective antiviral concentrations of DB456. In subsequent experiments, IVF presumptive zygotes were cultured in IVC medium with or without DB456 or DB606 at multiple concentrations for 7 days to evaluate effect of the compound on conceptus development. On day 7, stage of embryonic development was observed, and blastocysts were harvested and stained using Hoechst 33342 to enumerate embryonic cells. While DB456 inhibited blastocyst development, DB606 at 20 times the effective antiviral concentration did not hinder blastocyst development or reduce the mean number of cells per blastocyst. These preliminary results indicated that bovine embryo cultures might be safely supplemented with effective concentrations of an antiviral agent.


pmid: 26403669
title: A nationwide database linking information on the hosts with sequence data of their virus strains: A useful tool for the eradication of bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) in Switzerland
abstract: Pestiviruses infect a wide variety of animals of the order Artiodactyla, with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) being an economically important pathogen of livestock globally. BVDV is maintained in the cattle population by infecting fetuses early in gestation and, thus, by generating persistently infected (PI) animals that efficiently transmit the virus throughout their lifetime. In 2008, Switzerland started a national control campaign with the aim to eradicate BVDV from all bovines in the country by searching for and eliminating every PI cattle. Different from previous eradication programs, all animals of the entire population were tested for virus within one year, followed by testing each newborn calf in the subsequent four years. Overall, 3,855,814 animals were tested from 2008 through 2011, 20,553 of which returned an initial BVDV-positive result. We were able to obtain samples from at least 36% of all initially positive tested animals. We sequenced the 5' untranslated region (UTR) of more than 7400 pestiviral strains and compiled the sequence data in a database together with an array of information on the PI animals, among others, the location of the farm in which they were born, their dams, and the locations where the animals had lived. To our knowledge, this is the largest database combining viral sequences with animal data of an endemic viral disease. Using unique identification tags, the different datasets within the database were connected to run diverse molecular epidemiological analyses. The large sets of animal and sequence data made it possible to run analyses in both directions, i.e., starting from a likely epidemiological link, or starting from related sequences. We present the results of three epidemiological investigations in detail and a compilation of 122 individual investigations that show the usefulness of such a database in a country-wide BVD eradication program.


pmid: 8581866
title: Control of bovine viral diarrhea infection by use of vaccination
abstract: Vaccination with either inactivated or modified live virus vaccines is beneficial for control of BVD in cattle. The advantages and/or disadvantages of each type of vaccine often influence vaccine selection. The frequency of vaccination depends on the herd management system, regional prevalence of BVDV, and required duration of protection. Vaccines for BVD likely will change in content as knowledge of BVDV increases and as new technologies are adapted for vaccine production.


pmid: 9460918
title: Evidence for biotype-specific effects of bovine viral diarrhoea virus on biological responses in acutely infected calves
abstract: The relationship between the two biotypes of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and the biological responses they induce was studied in 3- to 6-month-old calves inoculated intranasally with a homologous pair of non-cytopathic and cytopathic strains. Marked differences in virological and serological events occurred following exposure to a specific BVDV strain. The non-cytopathic biotype was frequently recovered from nasal secretions and blood cells during the first 28 days post-inoculation whereas the cytopathic counterpart was detected infrequently in nasopharyngeal swabs only. There was no correlation of the recovery of infectious virus in vivo with the biotype-specific neutralizing humoral immune response. Furthermore, seroconversion did not correlate with resistance to reinfection as judged by the transient viraemia and/or shedding of virus observed in a challenge experiment.


pmid: 8578861
title: A nested polymerase chain reaction assay to differentiate pestiviruses
abstract: Viruses that comprise the Pestivirus genus cause significant losses to the livestock industry. Based on sequence analysis, currently 4 distinct genotypes are identified of which 3 infect cattle and sheep. Distinguishing between bovine and ovine isolates by serological tests has often been difficult because of a high degree of cross reactivity. In this study, a nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay was developed to identify and distinguish between bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type I, BVDV type II, as well as border disease virus (BDV) genotypes. Consensus oligonucleotide primers were designed to amplify a 826-bp product from any of the 3 pestivirus types in a reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR). This product was subjected to a second round of nested PCR with type-specific primers which yielded DNA products of unique size characteristic for each pestivirus genotype. Using this assay, we were able to rapidly characterize several viral isolates and determine that all 3 genotypes can be found among ovine isolates.


pmid: 17447110
title: Identification and characterization of the NTPase activity of classical swine fever virus (CSFV) nonstructural protein 3 (NS3) expressed in bacteria
abstract: The nonstructural protein 3 (NS3) of members of the family Flaviviridae possesses multiple enzyme activities that are likely to be essential for viral replication. Here, we cloned and expressed full-length CSFV NS3 protein (NS3FL) and its N-terminal truncated version (ntNS3) in E. coli. NTPase activities of the purified NS3FL and ntNS3 proteins and their reaction conditions were investigated. The results showed that CSFV NS3FL and ntNS3 proteins contained a specific polynucleotide-stimulated NTPase acitivity. Characterization of ntNS3 NTPase activity showed that optimal reaction conditions with respect to pH, MgCl2 and monovalent cations were similar to those of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV). Site-directed mutagenesis analysis demonstrated that the GxGK(232)T to GxGAT mutation in the conserved motif I abolished the NTPase activity of ntNS3, whereas substitution of TATPA(354) for TATPV in the motif III had no effect on the enzyme activity. Moreover, the kinetic properties (K(m) and k(cat)) of CSFV NS3 were more similar to those of BVDV. Our results provide insight into the structure-function relationship of CSFV NS3 and facilitate our understanding of its role in the replication cycle of CSFV.


pmid: 15327790
title: Analysis of variation of bovine viral diarrhoea virus E2 sequence following transplacental infection of cattle
abstract: The genetic and antigenic diversity observed in field isolates of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is thought to occur during acute infection because of the genetic stability observed in BVDV throughout the lifetime of persistently infected (PI) cattle. In this study, 15 cows in early pregnancy were inoculated with identical challenge doses obtained from a single infectious inoculum of the virologically cloned isolate Pe515nc. In order to examine the diversity that may develop in utero in the PI foetus, the variable E2 sequence of the virus isolated directly from the serum of each PI calf was compared. A high degree of sequence similarity was demonstrated, with 0-4 nucleotide differences out of 608 bases compared. Thus, the virus showed relatively few genomic changes in any of the PI calves, although we observed that the in utero environment did provide some opportunity for genetic variation to become established.


pmid: 9460918
title: Evidence for biotype-specific effects of bovine viral diarrhoea virus on biological responses in acutely infected calves
abstract: The relationship between the two biotypes of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and the biological responses they induce was studied in 3- to 6-month-old calves inoculated intranasally with a homologous pair of non-cytopathic and cytopathic strains. Marked differences in virological and serological events occurred following exposure to a specific BVDV strain. The non-cytopathic biotype was frequently recovered from nasal secretions and blood cells during the first 28 days post-inoculation whereas the cytopathic counterpart was detected infrequently in nasopharyngeal swabs only. There was no correlation of the recovery of infectious virus in vivo with the biotype-specific neutralizing humoral immune response. Furthermore, seroconversion did not correlate with resistance to reinfection as judged by the transient viraemia and/or shedding of virus observed in a challenge experiment.


pmid: 8578861
title: A nested polymerase chain reaction assay to differentiate pestiviruses
abstract: Viruses that comprise the Pestivirus genus cause significant losses to the livestock industry. Based on sequence analysis, currently 4 distinct genotypes are identified of which 3 infect cattle and sheep. Distinguishing between bovine and ovine isolates by serological tests has often been difficult because of a high degree of cross reactivity. In this study, a nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay was developed to identify and distinguish between bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type I, BVDV type II, as well as border disease virus (BDV) genotypes. Consensus oligonucleotide primers were designed to amplify a 826-bp product from any of the 3 pestivirus types in a reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR). This product was subjected to a second round of nested PCR with type-specific primers which yielded DNA products of unique size characteristic for each pestivirus genotype. Using this assay, we were able to rapidly characterize several viral isolates and determine that all 3 genotypes can be found among ovine isolates.


pmid: 1322931
title: Nucleotide sequencing of 5' and 3' termini of bovine viral diarrhea virus by RNA ligation and PCR
abstract: Genomic RNA was extracted from cytopathic (CP) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strain NADL, CP strain 72, and noncytopathic (NCP) strain SD-1 purified by ultracentrifugation. Assuming the presence of a cap structure, de-blocking of the 5' capped end of the genomic RNA was done by treatment with tobacco acid pyrophosphatase (TAP). Following decapping, the RNA molecules were ligated using T4 RNA ligase and the ligated tandem RNA templates were then amplified by primer-directed amplification (PCR). cDNA synthesis was done using reverse transcriptase with random primers and cDNA amplification was done using a negative sense primer 231-248 and a positive sense primer 12434-12451. The nucleotide sequence of the amplified product was determined by double-stranded sequencing using the Sanger di-deoxy chain termination method and an additional 'CCCCC' nucleotide sequence was identified at the ligation site. Following dATP tailing of cDNA and amplification across the 5' terminus and nucleotide sequencing, no additional nucleotides were identified on the 5' terminus. The 5' terminus as published by Collett et al., 1988b was confirmed as previously reported. Therefore, the 3' terminus includes an additional 'CCCCC' nucleotide sequence to that previously reported. Identical results were obtained when the BVDV genomic RNA was not decapped prior to RNA ligation and amplification.


pmid: 21908306
title: Development of a set of multiplex standard polymerase chain reaction assays for the identification of infectious agents from aborted bovine clinical samples
abstract: The current study describes the development of a set of 5 multiplex polymerase chain reaction (mPCR) assays for the simultaneous detection of abortive infection agents in bovine fetal tissues, including Brucella spp., Leptospira spp., and Campylobacter fetus (mPCR1); Hammondia heydorni, Neospora caninum, and Toxoplasma gondii (mPCR2); Coxiella burnetii and Chlamydophila psittaci (mPCR3); Mycoplasma bovis, Mycoplasma bovigenitalium, and Ureaplasma diversum (mPCR4); and Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and Bovine herpesvirus-1 (BoHV-1; mPCR5). The protocol was tested on different tissue samples collected from 50 aborted bovine fetuses, and it showed that out of the 50 fetuses, 7 (14%, mPCR2) were PCR-positive for N. caninum, 4 (8%, mPCR5) were PCR-positive for BVDV, and 2 (4%, mPCR4) were PCR-positive for U. diversum. The results obtained by using each multiplex PCR were 100% concordant with those obtained by using the respective PCR assays targeting single genes on the same specimens. Moreover, all multiplex PCR assays on clinical samples were compared with reference methods, obtaining a perfect accordance in all samples and confirming the validity of the set of multiplex PCR assays. The proposed set of multiplex PCR assays is, therefore, suitable for the simultaneous detection of the main infectious agents responsible for bovine abortion.


pmid: 33635614
title: A serological investigation of Bovine enterovirus-1, Bovine herpesvirus-1, Bovine viral diarrhea virus, and Parainfluenza-3 infections in camelsin Western Turkey
abstract: Camels (Camelus dromedarius) are bred in Western Turkey, particularly in the province of Aydin, for touristic, social and cultural purposes. Bovine enterovirus‑1 (BEV‑1), Bovine herpesvirus type‑1 (BHV‑1), Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and Parainfluenza‑3 (PI‑3) virus infections are significant causes of health and/or economic concerns in several animal species. These agents have not been investigated in the camel population in Turkey. The objective of this study was to serologically investigate the presence and infection rates of these viruses in camels in Aydin province, Western Turkey. Ninety‑two serum samples were taken from clinically healthy camels that were kept in private farms or brought to the local slaughterhouses. Serum neutralization test was performed to assess the presence and the titers of specific antibodies against BEV‑1, BHV‑1, BVDV, and PI‑3 virus in camel sera. Of the 92 camels tested, 30 (32.61%), 2 (2.17%), 54 (58.7%), and 20 (21.74%) were seropositive for BEV‑1, BHV‑1, BVDV, and PI‑3, respectively. These results suggest that, except for BHV‑1, these viral infections are common among camels in Western Turkey. To our knowledge, this the first comprehensive, large‑scale study investigating these viral infections in camels in Turkey.


pmid: 19482481
title: Antiviral and cytotoxic activities of aminoarylazo compounds and aryltriazene derivatives
abstract: Twelve aminoarylazocompounds (A-C) and 46 aryltriazene 7 derivatives (D-G) have been synthesized and evaluated in cell-based assays for cytotoxicity and antiviral activity against a panel of 10 RNA and DNA viruses. Eight aminoazocompounds and 27 aryltriazene derivatives exhibited antiviral activity, sometimes of high level, against one or more viruses. A marked activity against BVDV and YFV was prevailing among the former compounds, while the latter type of compounds affected mainly CVB-2 and RSV. None of the active compounds inhibited the multiplication of HIV-1, VSV and VV. Arranged in order of decreasing potency and selectivity versus the host cell lines, the best compounds are the following; BVDV: 1>7>8>4; YFV: 7>5; CVB-2: 25>56>18; RSV: 14>20>55>38>18>19; HSV-1: 2. For these compounds the EC(50) ranged from 1.6 microM (1) to 12 microM (18), and the S. I. from 19.4 (1) to 4.2 (2). Thus the aminoarylazo and aryltriazene substructures appear as interesting molecular component for developing antiviral agents against ss RNA viruses, particularly against RSV and BVDV, which are important human and veterinary pathogens. Finally, molecular modeling investigations indicated that compounds of structure A-C, active against BVDV, could work targeting the viral RNA-dependent RNA-polymerase (RdRp), having been observed a good agreement between the trends of the estimated IC(50) and the experimental EC(50) values.


pmid: 16566254
title: Diseases and pathogens associated with mortality in Ontario beef feedlots
abstract: This study determined the prevalence of diseases and pathogens associated with mortality or severe morbidity in 72 Ontario beef feedlots in calves that died or were euthanized within 60 days after arrival. Routine pathologic and microbiologic investigations, as well as immunohistochemical staining for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) antigen, were performed on 99 calves that died or were euthanized within 60 days after arrival. Major disease conditions identified included fibrinosuppurative bronchopneumonia (49%), caseonecrotic bronchopneumonia or arthritis (or both) caused by Mycoplasma bovis (36%), viral respiratory disease (19%), BVDV-related diseases (21%), Histophilus somni myocarditis (8%), ruminal bloat (2%), and miscellaneous diseases (8%). Viral infections identified were BVDV (35%), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (9%), bovine herpesvirus-1 (6%), parainfluenza-3 virus (3%), and bovine coronavirus (2%). Bacteria isolated from the lungs included M. bovis (82%), Mycoplasma arginini (72%), Ureaplasma diversum (25%), Mannheimia haemolytica (27%), Pasteurella multocida (19%), H. somni (14%), and Arcanobacterium pyogenes (19%). Pneumonia was the most frequent cause of mortality of beef calves during the first 2 months after arrival in feedlots, representing 69% of total deaths. The prevalence of caseonecrotic bronchopneumonia caused by M. bovis was similar to that of fibrinosuppurative bronchopneumonia, and together, these diseases were the most common causes of pneumonia and death. M. bovis pneumonia and polyarthritis has emerged as an important cause of mortality in Ontario beef feedlots.


pmid: 15955552
title: Normal calves produced after transfer of in vitro fertilized embryos cultured with an antiviral compound
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) replicates in embryo co-culture systems and remains associated with developing IVF bovine embryos, despite washing and trypsin treatment. Previous research demonstrated that 2-(4-[2-imidazolinyl]phenyl)-5-(4-methoxyphenyl)furan (DB606) inhibits replication of BVDV in cultured cells. The objective of this study was to evaluate the capability of IVF embryos to develop into normal, weaned calves after exposure to antiviral concentrations of DB606 during IVC. Oocytes were obtained from cows via transvaginal, ultrasound-guided follicular aspiration. Presumptive zygotes (n = 849) that resulted from fertilization of these oocytes were cultured for 7 d in medium supplemented with 0.4 microM DB606 or medium lacking antiviral agent. All blastocysts (n = 110) were transferred individually into the uterus of a synchronized recipient. The pregnancy status of recipients was determined using transrectal ultrasonography at 21-23 d after embryo transfer. Additional pregnancies as controls (n = 21) were initiated by natural breeding. Developing fetuses and resulting calves were evaluated every 27-34 d. Blastocyst development, pregnancies per transferred embryo, pregnancies maintained per pregnancies established, gestation length, gender ratio, birth weights, viability of neonates, complete blood counts, and serum chemistry profiles at 3 mo of age and adjusted 205 d weaning weights were compared for research treatments. Development to weaning after exposure to DB606 did not differ significantly from controls. In conclusion, bovine embryo cultures can be safely supplemented with antiviral concentrations of DB606; addition of DB606 agent might prevent viral transmission if BVDV were inadvertently introduced into the embryo culture system.


pmid: 15388860
title: Design, expression, and purification of a Flaviviridae polymerase using a high-throughput approach to facilitate crystal structure determination
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) nonstructural protein 5B is an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase, essential for viral replication. Initial attempts to crystallize a soluble form of the 695-residue BVDV polymerase did not produce any crystals. Limited proteolysis, homology modeling, and mutagenesis data were used to aid the design of polymerase constructs that might crystallize more readily. Limited proteolysis of the polymerase with trypsin identified a domain boundary within the protein. Homology modeling of the polymerase, based on the structure of hepatitis C virus polymerase, indicated that the two polymerases share a 23% identical "core," although overall sequence identity is low. Eighty-four expression clones of the BVDV polymerase were designed by fine-sampling of chain termini at the boundaries of domain and of active truncated forms of the polymerase. The resulting constructs were expressed in Escherichia coli and purified using high-throughput methods. Soluble truncated proteins were subjected to crystallization trials in a 96-well format, and two of these proteins were successfully crystallized.


pmid: 12208938
title: Replication of a cytopathic strain of bovine viral diarrhea virus activates PERK and induces endoplasmic reticulum stress-mediated apoptosis of MDBK cells
abstract: Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress signaling is an adaptive cellular response to the loss of ER Ca(2+) homeostasis and/or the accumulation of misfolded, unassembled, or aggregated proteins in the ER lumen. ER stress-activated signaling pathways regulate protein synthesis initiation and can also trigger apoptosis through the ER-associated caspase 12. Viruses that utilize the host cell ER as an integral part of their life cycle would be predicted to cause some level of ER stress. Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a positive-stranded RNA virus of the Flaviviridae family. BVDV and related flaviviruses use the host ER as the primary site of envelope glycoprotein biogenesis, genomic replication, and particle assembly. We are using a cytopathic strain of BVDV (cpBVDV) that causes cellular apoptosis as a model system to determine how virus-induced ER stress contributes to pathogenesis. We show that, in a natural infection of MDBK cells, cpBVDV activates the ER transmembrane kinase PERK (PKR-like ER kinase) and causes hyperphosphorylation of the translation initiation factor eIF2 alpha, consistent with the induction of an ER stress response. Additionally, we show that initiation of cellular apoptosis correlates with downregulation of the antiapoptotic Bcl-2 protein, induced expression of caspase 12, and a decrease in intracellular glutathione levels. Defining the molecular stress pathways leading to cpBVDV-induced apoptosis provides the basis to study how other ER-tropic viruses, such as hepatitis C and B viruses, modulate the host cell ER stress response during the course of persistent infection.


pmid: 27021825
title: What can pestiviral endonucleases teach us about innate immunotolerance?
abstract: Pestiviruses including bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), border disease virus (BDV) and classical swine fever virus (CSFV), occur worldwide and are important pathogens of livestock. A large part of their success can be attributed to the induction of central immunotolerance including B- and T-cells upon fetal infection leading to the generation of persistently infected (PI) animals. In the past few years, it became evident that evasion of innate immunity is a central element to induce and maintain persistent infection. Hence, the viral non-structural protease N(pro) heads the transcription factor IRF-3 for proteasomal degradation, whereas an extracellularly secreted, soluble form of the envelope glycoprotein E(rns) degrades immunostimulatory viral single- and double-stranded RNA, which makes this RNase unique among viral endoribonucleases. We propose that these pestiviral interferon (IFN) antagonists maintain a state of innate immunotolerance mainly pertaining its viral nucleic acids, in contrast to the well-established immunotolerance of the adaptive immune system, which is mainly targeted at proteins. In particular, the unique extension of 'self' to include the viral genome by degrading immunostimulatory viral RNA by E(rns) is reminiscent of various host nucleases that are important to prevent inappropriate IFN activation by the host's own nucleic acids in autoimmune diseases such as Aicardi-Goutières syndrome or systemic lupus erythematosus. This mechanism of "innate tolerance" might thus provide a new facet to the role of extracellular RNases in the sustained prevention of the body's own immunostimulatory RNA to act as a danger-associated molecular pattern that is relevant across various species.


pmid: 25082514
title: Antiviral activity of benzimidazole derivatives. III. Novel anti-CVB-5, anti-RSV and anti-Sb-1 agents
abstract: A library of eighty-six assorted benzimidazole derivatives was screened for antiviral activity against a panel of ten RNA and DNA viruses. Fifty-two of them displayed different levels of activity against one or more viruses, among which CVB-5, RSV, BVDV and Sb-1 were the most frequently affected. In particular, fourteen compounds exhibited an EC50 in the range 9-17μM (SI from 6 to >11) versus CVB-5, and seven compounds showed an EC50 in the range 5-15μM (SI from 6.7 to ⩾20) against RSV, thus resulting comparable to or more potent than the respective reference drugs (NM108 and ribavirin). Most of these compounds derive from 2-benzylbenzimidazole, but also other molecular scaffolds [as 1-phenylbenzimidazole (2), 2-trifluoromethylbenzimidazole (69), dihydropyrido[3',2':4,5]imidazo[1,2-a][1,4]benzodiazepin-5-one (3), dibenzo[c,e]benzimidazo[1,2-a]azepine (22), and 2-(tetrahydropyran-2-yl)benzimidazole (81, 82 and 86)] are related to interesting levels of activity against these or other viruses (BVDV, Sb-1). Thus, these scaffolds (some of which, so far unexplored), represent valid starting points to develop more efficient agents against pathologies caused by CVB-5, RSV, BVDV and Sb-1 viruses.


pmid: 22031952
title: Pestivirus virion morphogenesis in the absence of uncleaved nonstructural protein 2-3
abstract: The family Flaviviridae contains three genera of positive-strand RNA viruses, namely, Flavivirus, Hepacivirus (e.g., hepatitis C virus [HCV]), and Pestivirus. Pestiviruses, like bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bear a striking degree of similarity to HCV concerning polyprotein organization, processing, and function. Along this line, in both systems, release of nonstructural protein 3 (NS3) is essential for viral RNA replication. However, both viruses differ significantly with respect to processing efficiency at the NS2/3 cleavage site and abundance as well as functional relevance of uncleaved NS2-3. In BVDV-infected cells, significant amounts of NS2-3 accumulate at late time points postinfection and play an essential but ill-defined role in the production of infectious virions. In contrast, complete cleavage of the HCV NS2-3 counterpart has been reported, and unprocessed NS2-3 is not required throughout the life cycle of HCV, at least in cell culture. Here we describe the selection and characterization of the first pestiviral genome with the capability to complete productive infection in the absence of uncleaved NS2-3. Despite the insertion of a ubiquitin gene or an internal ribosomal entry site between the NS2 and NS3 coding sequences, the selected chimeric BVDV-1 genomes gave rise to infectious virus progeny. In this context, a mutation in the N-terminal third of NS2 was identified as a critical determinant for efficient production of infectious virions in the absence of uncleaved NS2-3. These findings challenge a previously accepted dogma for pestivirus replication and provide new implications for virion morphogenesis of pestiviruses and HCV.


pmid: 19709915
title: Modelling the effects of previous infection and re-infection on the costs of bovine viral diarrhoea outbreaks in beef herds
abstract: A previously published model was re-employed to examine the potential impact of different epidemiological circumstances on output losses due to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection in typical British hill cow-calf enterprises. The average annuity equivalent of unchecked losses from 100 simulated 10-year disease scenarios ranged from almost pound0/cow to approximately pound40/cow. Significant differences were found under certain circumstances, depending on the initial disease status of the herd, the initial source of virus, the probability and source of further infection, the probability of virus transmission within the herd and herd size. For naïve herds, losses depended only on the risk of incursion. In most other circumstances, the losses could be mitigated if the annual risk of incursion was <0.3 and risk of within herd transmission was extremely low. Greater understanding of the interaction between these risk factors and management actions are required so that total costs of BVDV infection can be minimised under different circumstances.


pmid: 16908042
title: Identification of a novel virulence determinant within the E2 structural glycoprotein of classical swine fever virus
abstract: Classical swine fever virus (CSFV) E2 glycoprotein contains a discrete epitope (TAVSPTTLR, residues 829-837 of CSFV polyprotein) recognized by monoclonal antibody (mAb) WH303, used to differentiate CSFV from related ruminant pestiviruses, Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) and Border Disease Virus (BDV), that infect swine without causing disease. Progressive mutations were introduced into mAb WH303 epitope in CSFV virulent strain Brescia (BICv) to obtain the homologous amino acid sequence of BVDV strain NADL E2 (TSFNMDTLA). In vitro growth of mutants T1v (TSFSPTTLR), T2v (TSFNPTTLR), T3v (TSFNMTTLR) was similar to parental BICv, while mutants T4v (TSFNMDTLR) and T5v (TSFNMDTLA) exhibited a 10-fold decrease in virus yield and reduced plaque size. In vivo, T1v, T2v or T3v induced lethal disease, T4v induced mild and transient disease and T5v induced mild clinical signs. Protection against BICv challenge was observed at 3 and 21 days post-T5v infection. These results indicate that E2 residues TAVSPTTLR play a significant role in CSFV virulence.


pmid: 12784558
title: [Elimination of persistently BVDV infect animals: efficient herd screening using RT-PCR and antigen ELISA in milk and serum samples]
abstract: With the long-term perspective of the eradication of BVD/MD in the German federal state Saxony-Anhalt a voluntary control program was initiated in 2002 by an administrative regulation based on federal German guidelines. The short-term aim of this program is the establishment of BVDV-unsuspected herds achieved by elimination of persistently infected cattle. The diagnostic program and particularly the choice of the diagnostic tools was based on the consideration of laboratory experiences as well as on economic and logistic aspects. A combination of RT-PCR and antigen-ELISA was found to be the suitable diagnostic methods. The screening started with examinations of sera pools using Real Time RT-PCR in the Light-Cylcer system. After positive pool results the individual persistently infected animals were detected using various commercial ERNS-antigen-ELISAs. The RT-PCR revealed a high degree of sensitivity and robustness. With respect to highly specific ELISAs the producers have to ensure the detection of all currently important virus strains. The prevalence of persistently infected animals in the cattle population of Saxony-Anhalt was about 0.2% during the last 3 years. This is probably due to nearly 10 years of broad vaccination and will prove advantageous for BVDV elimination.


pmid: 9779556
title: An RT-PCR assay for the specific detection of classical swine fever virus in clinical samples
abstract: A simple reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assay has been developed for the specific amplification of DNA after reverse transcription of RNA from the classical swine fever virus (CSFV). A pair of oligonucleotides was selected from an area of high homology in the genome of CSFV strains, but which differed from the corresponding sequences in the genome of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strains. Using these primers (CSFV1-CSFV2), a CSFV specific DNA band of 174 bp was amplified from the CSFV RNA extracted from four reference strains and 14 field isolates, as well as from 25 organ extracts and eight buffy coats and serum samples of experimentally infected animals. No amplification was observed with the RNA from four BVDV reference and vaccine strains and seven field isolates. This RT-PCR assay made it possible, in a one-step reaction, to detect CSFV rapidly, sensitively and specifically in cell culture supernatants and in clinical specimens.


pmid: 25697468
title: Development of an enhanced bovine viral diarrhea virus subunit vaccine based on E2 glycoprotein fused to a single chain antibody which targets to antigen-presenting cells
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an important cause of economic losses worldwide. E2 is an immunodominant protein and a promising candidate to develop subunit vaccines. To improve its immunogenicity, a truncated E2 (tE2) was fused to a single chain antibody named APCH, which targets to antigen-presenting cells. APCH-tE2 and tE2 proteins were expressed in the baculovirus system and their immunogenicity was firstly compared in guinea pigs. APCH-tE2 vaccine was the best one to evoke a humoral response, and for this reason, it was selected for a cattle vaccination experiment. All the bovines immunized with 1.5 μg of APCH-tE2 developed high levels of neutralizing antibodies against BVDV up to a year post-immunization, demonstrating its significant potential as a subunit vaccine. This novel vaccine is undergoing scale-up and was transferred to the private sector. Nowadays, it is being evaluated for registration as the first Argentinean subunit vaccine for cattle.


pmid: 25338932
title: Molecular mechanism of viral resistance to a potent non-nucleoside inhibitor unveiled by molecular simulations
abstract: Recently, we reported on a potent benzimidazole derivative (227G) that inhibits the growth of the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in cell-based and enzyme assays at nanomolar concentrations. The target of 227G is the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), and the I261M mutation located in motif I of the RdRp finger domain was found to induce drug resistance. Here we propose a molecular mechanism for the retained functionality of the enzyme in the presence of the inhibitor, on the basis of a thorough computational study of the apo and holo forms of the BVDV RdRp either in the wild type (wt) or in the form carrying the I261M mutation. Our study shows that although the mutation affects to some extent the structure of the apoenzyme, the functional dynamics of the protein appear to be largely maintained, which is consistent with the retained functionality of this natural mutant. Despite the binding site of 227G not collapsing or undergoing drastic structural changes upon introduction of the I261M substitution, these alterations reflect crucially on the binding mode of 227G, which is significantly different from that found in wt RdRp. In particular, while in the wt system the four loops lining the template entrance site embrace 227G and close the template passageway, in the I261M variant the template entrance is only marginally occluded, allowing in principle the translocation of the template to the interior of the enzyme. In addition, the mutated enzyme in the presence of 227G retains several characteristics of the wt apoprotein. Our work provides an original molecular picture of a resistance mechanism that is consistent with published experimental data.


pmid: 24490339
title: [Two years BVD ear notch samples diagnostics--results from 16 districts of Lower Saxony]
abstract: Since June 1st 2010 all calves in Lower Saxony are tested by ear notch samples for the presence of Bovine Virus Diarrhea (BVD) Virus based on the Lower Saxony BVDV-regulation. Since January 1st 2011 the new German BVDV-act requires an examination of the calves in the first 6 months of their life. In the Institute for Animal Health of LUFA Nord-West 1000-2000 ear notch samples originating from 16 rural districts are tested daily. In the period from June 1st 2010 to May 31st 2012 a total of 524,214 tissue samples were examined by an antigen ERNS ELISA. In case of low positive results the tests were verified by PCR. 2454 ear notch samples (0.47%) were from persistently with BVDV infected calves (PI-calves) coming from 763 farms (10.2% of the participating farms). In the first seven months of the eradication program 0.75% of the tested samples were positive. This number decreased in the year 2011 to 0.52%. In the first 5 months of 2012, only 0.18% of the ear notch samples tested positive.


pmid: 23094586
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in a dairy herd with high prevalence of persistently infected calves
abstract: A dairy herd including approximately 50 milking cows and 40 heifers and calves was investigated. This herd was detected with high prevalence of calves persistently infected (PI) with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Nine PI animals including a milking cow and 8 newborn calves were detected in the herd within 4 months. Prevalence of PI animals in this herd was estimated 7.0% which was very high compared to that estimated in previous reports. All newborn PI calves were strongly suspected to have a single origin of infection as estimated from the homology of the virus genes. The cause of high prevalence could not be clarified. Removal of PI animals and continuous examination of newborn calves were important for the elimination of BVDV from the herd.


pmid: 32300930
title: Variability of E2 protein-coding sequences of bovine viral diarrhea virus in Polish cattle
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) belongs to the Pestivirus genus of the Flaviviridae family and has worldwide distribution, being one of the main causes of economic losses in cattle raising. The genome of pestiviruses is a single strand of positive-sense RNA with a length of 12.3 kb, which encodes one open reading frame flanked by untranslated regions. E2 glycoprotein is required for binding to cell-surface receptors and it also contains major antigenic determinants. The nucleotide sequence coding E2 is the most variable part of the viral genome. The heterogeneity that exists among circulating strains causes problems in the development of effective vaccines and reliable diagnostics. In this study, and for the first time analysis was made of the E2 glycoprotein coding sequences of 14 Polish BVDV-1 strains which belong to four subtypes: 1b (n = 7), 1f (n = 3), 1s (n = 3), and 1r (n = 1). These sequences showed evidence of strong purifying (negative) selection. However, we also identified positively selected sites. The availability of E2 sequences of Polish BVDV strains for reference, knowledge gained through epitope prediction attempts, and information on protein glycosylation sites can afford a better understanding of host-pathogen interactions.


pmid: 20018395
title: Risk factors associated with Neospora caninum seropositivity in randomly sampled Canadian dairy cows and herds
abstract: Our objective was to determine cow- and herd-level risk factors associated with seropositivity for Neospora caninum in a large number of randomly selected Canadian dairy herds, controlling for important confounding variables and co-infections with bovine leukemia virus (BLV), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP). Serum samples were obtained from 30 randomly selected cows, where available, in 240 herds using monthly milk testing, within 6 of 10 provinces, and these samples were tested for antibodies against BLV, MAP and N. caninum using commercially available ELISA test kits. Five unvaccinated cattle >6 months old from each herd were tested for antibodies to BVDV using virus neutralization. Most herd-level predictors were obtained through personal interviews with questionnaires administrated to each farm manager. A mixed logistic-regression model was built using N. caninum serostatus at the cow-level as the outcome variable, with herd as a random effect and province as a fixed effect. A BLV seropositive cow was 1.50 times more likely to be seropositive for N. caninum than a BLV-seronegative cow, and this was the only cow-level variable to remain in the final model. Regarding herd-level variables, with "no on-farm dogs" as the baseline, "presence of dogs but not known to eat placentas and/or fetuses" increased the odds of seropositivity for N. caninum by a factor of 1.66. For "presence of dogs known to eat placentas and/or fetuses", the odds ratio (OR) was 2.75, demonstrating a dose-response relationship. "Using embryo transfer" (OR=0.69), "asking for a BVDV-negative test before introducing an animal" (OR=0.30), "using monensin in dry cows" (OR=0.71), and "heifers having nose-to-nose contact with calves" (OR=0.73) were all dichotomous variables negatively associated with seropositivity for N. caninum. "Number of milk cows on the farm" (OR=0.99), and "area (acres) used for forage production" (OR=0.99) were continuous variables negatively associated with N. caninum seropositivity.


pmid: 22985634
title: Potential evidence for biotype-specific chemokine profile following BVDV infection of bovine macrophages
abstract: Chemokines play a key role in initiating the innate and subsequently adaptive immune response by recruiting immune cells to the site of an infection. Monocytes/macrophages (MØ) are part of the first line of defence against invading pathogens, and have been shown to release a variety of chemokines in response to infection. Here, we reveal the early transcriptional response of MØ to infection with cytopathogenic (cp) and non-cytopathogenic (ncp) bovine viral diarrhoea strains (BVDV). We demonstrate up-regulation of several key chemokines of the CCL and CXCL families in MØ exposed to cpBVDV, but not ncpBVDV. In contrast, infection of MØ with ncpBVDV led to down-regulation of chemokine mRNA expression compared to uninfected cells. Data suggest that ncpBVDV can shut down production of several key chemokines that play crucial roles in the immune response to infection. This study helps to further our understanding of the pathogenesis of BVDV infection, highlighting biotype-specific cellular responses.


pmid: 16639944
title: Challenge with Bovine viral diarrhea virus by exposure to persistently infected calves: protection by vaccination and negative results of antigen testing in nonvaccinated acutely infected calves
abstract: Calves persistently infected (PI) with Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) represent an important source of infection for susceptible cattle. We evaluated vaccine efficacy using calves PI with noncytopathic BVDV2a for the challenge and compared tests to detect BVDV in acutely or transiently infected calves versus PI calves. Vaccination with 2 doses of modified live virus vaccine containing BVDV1a and BVDV2a protected the calves exposed to the PI calves: neither viremia nor nasal shedding occurred. An immunohistochemistry test on formalin-fixed ear notches and an antigen-capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay on fresh notches in phosphate-buffered saline did not detect BVDV antigen in any of the acutely or transiently infected calves, whereas both tests had positive results in all the PI calves.


pmid: 16102843
title: Ability to differentiate between cp and ncp BVDV by microarrays: towards an application in clinical veterinary medicine?
abstract: Microarray expression profiling provides a comprehensive portrait of the transcriptional world enabling us to view the organism as a 'system' that is more than the sum of its parts. The vigilance of cells to environmental change, the alacrity of the transcriptional response, the short half-life of cellular mRNA and the genome-scale nature of the investigation collectively explain the power of this method. These same features pose the most significant experimental design and execution issues which, unless surmounted, predictably generate a distorted image of the transcriptome. Conversely, the expression profile of a properly conceived and conducted microarray experiment can be used for hypothesis testing: disclosure of the metabolic and biosynthetic pathways that underlie adaptation of the organism to infectious processes; the identification of co-ordinately regulated genes; the regulatory circuits and signal transduction systems that mediate the adaptive response; and temporal features of developmental programmes. The study of viral pathogenesis by microarray expression profiling poses special challenges and opportunities. Although the technical hurdles are many, obtaining expression profiles of an organism growing in tissue will probably reveal strategies for growth and survival of the virus in the host's cells. Here, we show data obtained using a tailored microarray system based on synthetic polynucleotides derived from human sequences (SIRS-Lab GmbH, Jena, Germany) to study the effect of cytopathogenic (cpe) and non-cytopathogenic (ncp) bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection of bovine macrophages, focusing on intracellular signalling molecules. Of the 575 genes present on the array, more than 70% showed a reaction with the oligonuleotides spotted on the array, and 26 genes were differentially expressed comparing cDNA derived from cpe and ncp infected cells. These data will help to further understand our knowledge regarding BVDV infection, and will especially help to understand differences in cellular responses to cpe and ncp biotypes.


pmid: 12135789
title: Phylogenetic analysis of Brazilian bovine viral diarrhea virus type 2 (BVDV-2) isolates: evidence for a subgenotype within BVDV-2
abstract: Phylogenetic analysis divides bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) into two different genotypes (BVDV1 and BVDV2). BVDV1 strains have been further subdivided into two to 11 subgenotypes. Phylogenetic analysis of BVDV2 isolates, however, has not been able to identify discrete subgenotypes. In this study, we identified six South American BVDV2 strains and one North American BVDV2 strain that cluster to a separate genetic group within BVDV2, thus representing a distinct subgenotype. The 5' untranslated region (UTR) sequence homology between these six strains and other BVDV2 from North America, Europe and Asia (81.7%) is lower than the homology used to segregate BVDV1 into BVDV1a and BVDV1b (83.6%). Most nucleotide differences observed between the two subgroups of BVDV2 were concentrated in two regions, which also harbor most of the differences seen between BVDV1a and BVDV1b. To determine if this segregation was real, an additional analysis was performed comparing NS2/3 sequences. Analysis of a conserved sequence located between nucleotides 6670 and 7186 of the NS2/3 coding region also segregated these isolates to a separate group. The sequence homology between the two subgroups (86.3%) was higher than the homology in the 5'UTR (81.7%), with mean sequence homologies of 91 and 87.2% within the proposed subgroups. In contrast to the 5'UTR, alignment of the NS2/3 sequences revealed nucleotide differences distributed across the region. These results demonstrate that BVDV2 isolates cluster to two genetically distinct subgroups within BVDV2. The differences in both the 5'UTR and NS2/3 are consistent and justify this segregation. We suggest that BVDV2 may thereafter be subgenotyped into BVDV2a and BVDV2b. The existence of subgroups within the BVDV2 genotype with genetic heterogeneity similar to that seen among BVDV1 subgroups argues against BVDV2 isolates arising from BVDV1 in a recent evolutionary event. Unless the evolutionary clocks for BVDV1 and BVDV2 isolates tick along at different rates, these results indicate that BVDV2 have existed as long as BVDV1.


pmid: 6314854
title: Characteristics of the polyriboinosinic acid:polyribocytidylic acid assay for noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The use of polyriboinosinic acid:polyribocytidylic acid (poly I:C) for noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus (NC-BVDV) assay (PINBA) was studied. Several viruses were tested for their suitability as test challenge viruses. In addition to vesicular stomatitis virus, which previously was shown to be a suitable challenge virus, bovine enteroviruses also were found to be suitable, whereas infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus and parainfluenza type 3 virus were only marginally suitable. Bovine embryonic skin (BES) cultures developed resistance to PINBA within a few in vitro passages, whereas bovine embryonic lung (BEL) cultures did not. At certain passages, BES cultures were 500,000 times more resistant than BEL cultures. To determine whether the difference in viral titers on BEL and BES cultures was due to NC-BVDV replication, PINBA and fluorescent antibody assays were compared on the cultures. Resistance of BES cultures to PINBA was not due to an inability of the virus to replicate in the cultures, but was due to an inability of PINBA to detect the virus. Viral titers were comparable by fluorescent antibody assay titers on BES and BEL cultures, but were considerably higher than viral titers on BES cultures with PINBA. Variations in viral titers, using PINBA on BEL cultures, were observed and were considered to be due to cultural conditions, such as the presence of low levels of BVDV antibodies in bovine fetal serum used in the medium. Treatment of BEL cultures with poly I:C or interferon showed that NC-BVDV was sensitive to interferon as determined by virus-yield reduction.


pmid: 25562124
title: Homologous recombination in pestiviruses: identification of three putative novel events between different subtypes/genogroups
abstract: Viruses from the genus Pestivirus of the family Flaviviridae have a non-segmented, single-stranded RNA genome and can cause diseases in animals from the order Artiodactyla. Homologous recombination is rarely reported in this virus family. To detect possible recombination events, all complete pestivirus genomes that are available in GenBank were screened using distinct algorithms to detect genetic conversions and incongruent phylogenies. Three putative recombinant viruses derived from recombination from different pestivirus subtypes/genogroups were detected: Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1) strain 3156, BVDV-2 strain JZ05-1 and Classical swine fever virus (CSFV) strain IND/UK/LAL-290. The present study demonstrated that the pestivirus classification cannot be based only on the analysis of one fragment of the genome because genetic conversions can lead to errors. The designation of the recombinant forms (RF) provides a more informative structure for the nomenclature of the genetic variant. The present work reinforces that homologous recombination occurs in pestivirus populations under natural replication and describes the first evidence of recombination in BVDV-2.


pmid: 12970452
title: Cell-derived sequences in the N-terminal region of the polyprotein of a cytopathogenic pestivirus
abstract: Efficient proteolytic release of nonstructural protein 3 (NS3) from the viral polyprotein is considered to be crucial for the cytopathogenicity of pestiviruses. Here we describe a novel cytopathogenic (cp) bovine viral diarrhea virus strain (BVDV CP8) with a complex insertion composed of viral and cell-derived sequences, including two fragments of the cellular J-domain protein Jiv (J-domain protein interacting with viral protein) located in the N-terminal region of the polyprotein. BVDV CP8 expresses a Jiv fusion protein of 513 amino acids in addition to a complete set of viral proteins. This protein has the capacity to induce NS2-3 cleavage in trans. Accordingly, CP8 is a representative of a novel type of cp pestivirus with a cp-specific mutation located outside of the NS2-3 gene.


pmid: 11042409
title: Morphologic lesions in type 2 BVDV infections experimentally induced by strain BVDV2-1373 recovered from a field case
abstract: Widespread outbreaks of severe acute BVDV, some associated with hemorrhagic syndrome (HS), were reported in Quebec and Ontario in 1993. These outbreaks caused significant economic hardship in infected herds. In the Ontario outbreak 150 dairy, 600 beef and 100 milk and grain fed veal herds were affected with losses estimated at $40000-$10000 per herd in lost animals, milk production, abortions and genetics. Fever, pneumonia, diarrhea, and sudden death occurred in all age groups of cattle. Abortions were frequently observed in pregnant cattle. The viruses associated with this outbreak were determined to be noncytopathic BVDV from the type 2 genotype. All BVDV2 associated with these outbreaks were noncytopathic. One of the viruses isolated from the Ontario outbreak, BVDV2-1373, was used to experimentally induce HS in 5-6 weeks old colostrum deprived, seronegative calves. All animals developed leukopenia and thrombocytopenia within 6-10 days with some developing bloody diarrhea and becoming moribund. Animals were killed for necropsy between 6 and 11 days postinfection. Histopathologically lesions were similar, but more severe, to those seen early on (within first 9 days after superinfection) in animals with experimentally induced mucosal disease (MD). There were no erosions and ulcerations present in the upper digestive tract. In hemorrhages in the mucosa, virus antigen (VA) was present in macrophages of both the lamina propria and the submucosa and in basal epithelial cells. Cells containing VA were vacuolated and separated from each other. The most severe lesions observed in the digestive tract were in the Peyers patches and were characterized by depletion of lymphocytes and proliferation of crypt cells resulting in crypthyperplasia. Apoptotic cells were present in crypts and areas of lymph follicles where viral antigen was detected. Out of the six animals, VA was present in four animals in the pancreas, three animals in the pituitary and in two animals in the adrenal glands. The results suggest that the pathology resulting from acute infection with a highly virulent noncytopathic BVDV2 differs from the pathology observed in classic mucosal disease.


pmid: 9811521
title: Inactivation of viruses by beta-propiolactone in human cryo poor plasma and IgG concentrates
abstract: Virus inactivation by cold treatment with beta-propiolactone (BPL) was investigated in human cryo poor plasma and purified IgG concentrates spiked with relevant human viruses or appropriate animal model viruses. The samples were treated with 0.1 or 0.25% BPL for 300 or 480 min, respectively. Residual infectivity was determined by standard microtitration assays on tissue culture cells. The inactivation of all viruses tested was more effective in IgG than in plasma. IgG: R1=4-5.5 log10 for vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV). Semliki Forest virus (SFV), bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV), murine encephalomyelitis virus (MEV), feline calicivirus (FVC), suid parvovirus (PPV), simian virus 40 (SV40); R1=2-4 log10 for suid herpesvirus type 1 (SHV-1), bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BHV-1), human immunodeficiency virus type 2 (HIV-2), simian immunodeficiency virus (SIVagm3). Plasma: R1=3-5 log10 for VSV, SFV, BVDV, SHV-1, MEV:R1=0-3 log10 for HIV-1, SIVagm3 BHV-1, FCV, PPV, SV40. After addition of SIVagm3, HIV-2, and PPV to plasma or IgG, spontaneous inactivation without further addition of BPL was observed. These results demonstrate that treatment with BPL has a limited capacity to inactivate viruses. Different inactivation kinetics were observed in plasma and IgG concentrates. Therefore, virus inactivation by BPL must be tested for individual blood products independently and should not be extrapolated from other model systems.


pmid: 9282788
title: Comparison of the complete genomic sequence of the border disease virus, BD31, to other pestiviruses
abstract: The genus Pestivirus is composed of hog cholera virus (HCV) [also known as classical swine fever virus (CSFV)], bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and border disease virus (BDV). Complete sequences have been published for HCV (or CSFV) and the two genotypes of BVDV (BVDV1 and BVDV2). In this study the complete sequence of the border disease virus (BDV), BD31, was determined. BD31 was isolated from a lamb with hairy shaker syndrome and is the BDV type virus offered by ATCC (ATCC VR-996). The genome was 12268 nucleotides long and had a single large open reading frame (ORF) beginning at nucleotide 357 and ending at nucleotide 12045. The sequence identity of the predicted amino acid sequence of BD31 and other published pestivirus sequences varied from 71% to 78%. Phylogenetic analysis of available complete genomic sequences segregated pestiviruses into two branches. One branch contained BD31 and HCV (or CSFV) isolates while the other branch contained BVDV1 and BVDV2 isolates. Pestiviruses from the same branch were similar in the length of the 5' and 3' untranslated regions (UTR). When complete genomic sequences were compared among BD31, HCV (or CSFV), BVDV1 and BVDV2, the highest sequence identity was observed in the 5' UTR. Within the ORF, the highest sequence identity was observed in the genomic region coding for the nonstructural viral polypeptide p80.


pmid: 27441213
title: BVD-2 outbreak leads to high losses in cattle farms in Western Germany
abstract: In November 2012, a dairy farmer in the district Kleve first observed a reduction in milk yield, respiratory symptoms, nasal discharge, fever, sporadic diarrhoea and sudden deaths in dairy cows and calves. In the following months, further farms were found infected with cattle showing similar clinical signs. An epidemiological investigation was carried out to identify the source of infection, the date of introduction, potential transmission pathways and to analyse the extent of the epidemic. Furthermore, laboratory analyses were conducted to characterise the causative agent. BVDV had been diagnosed in the index herd in December 2012, but due to the atypical clinical picture, the virus was not immediately recognised as the causative agent. Further laboratory analysis showed that this outbreak and subsequent infections in the area were caused by a BVD type 2c virus with a characteristic genome insertion, which seems to be associated with the occurrence of severe clinical symptoms in infected cattle. Epidemiological investigations showed that the probable date of introduction was in mid-October 2012. The high risk period was estimated as three months. A total of 21 affected farms with 5325 cattle were identified in two German Federal States. The virus was mainly transmitted by person contacts, but also by cattle trade and vehicles. The case-fatality rate was up to 60% and mortality in outbreak farms varied between 2.3 and 29.5%. The competent veterinary authorities imposed trade restrictions on affected farms. All persons who had been in contact with affected animals were advised to increase biosecurity measures (e.g. using farm-owned or disposable protective clothing). In some farms, affected animals were vaccinated against BVD to reduce clinical signs as an "emergency measure". These measures stopped the further spread of the disease.


pmid: 16199104
title: Diagnostic assays applied in BVDV control in The Netherlands
abstract: In The Netherlands, a voluntary bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV)-free certification programme was started in 1997. After an intake procedure in which all cattle are tested for the presence of BVD virus, a herd obtains the status "BVD-virus-free". To maintain this status a monitoring procedure is executed to verify absence of BVDV circulation in the herd. Several diagnostic tests are used: RT-PCR in bulk milk and pooled blood samples, antigen-ELISA (Ag-ELISA) and antibody ELISA in individual blood samples. Sensitivity and specificity of these tests are discussed. In addition, a diagnostic quick scan has been introduced, consisting of a combination of bulk milk tests for virus and antibody, and antibody tests in samples from young stock. Preliminary results are presented.


pmid: 15062472
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus in embryo and semen production systems
abstract: Although BVDV-free offspring have been produced from persistently infected bulls and heifers via advanced reproductive techniques, embryos and semen can potentially transmit the virus. Due to this potential for transmission, appropriate testing is necessary to ensure freedom of semen and embryos from BVDV. In the future, less constraining quality control measures may ensure freedom of embryos and semen from BVDV. These quality control measures require additional research to be validated.


pmid: 17276108
title: Efficacy of a quadrivalent vaccine against respiratory diseases caused by BHV-1, PI3V, BVDV and BRSV in experimentally infected calves
abstract: The efficacy of a quadrivalent vaccine against viral bovine respiratory diseases (BRD) was assessed in four experimental studies. Calves between 2 and 9 months of age were allocated to one of two treatment groups (n=9-15) and then received either the vaccine or sterile saline in two doses approximately 3 weeks apart. Three to 5 weeks after the second injection, animals were challenged experimentally with one of the viruses, bovine herpes-virus-1 (BHV-1), parainfluenza type-3 virus (PI(3)V), bovine viral-diarrhoea virus type 1 (BVDV), or bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) and were then monitored for at least 2 weeks. The administration of the vaccine was associated with enhanced antibody response to all four viruses post-challenge, with the reduction of the amount or duration (or both) of virus shedding in the BHV-1, PI(3)V, BVDV and BRSV studies and with an improvement of some clinical signs in the BHV-1 (nasal discharge, and rectal temperature) and the PI(3)V studies (abnormal respiration, and depression).


pmid: 23928259
title: Approved and experimental countermeasures against pestiviral diseases: Bovine viral diarrhea, classical swine fever and border disease
abstract: The pestiviruses, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), classical swine fever (CSFV) and border disease virus, are important livestock pathogens in many countries, but current vaccines do not completely prevent the spread of infection. Control of pestiviral diseases is especially difficult due to the constant viremia and viral shedding of persistently infected (PI) animals, which must be identified and eliminated to prevent disease transmission. Existing vaccines are limited by the delay between vaccination and the onset of protection, the difficulty of differentiating serologically between vaccinated and naturally infected animals and the need for broad vaccine cross-protection against diverse virus strains. Antiviral therapy could potentially supplement vaccination by providing immediate protection in the case of an outbreak. Numerous compounds with in vitro antiviral activity against BVDV have been identified through its role as a surrogate for hepatitis C virus. Fewer drugs active against CSFV have been identified, but many compounds that are effective against BVDV will likely inhibit CSFV, given their similar genomic sequences. While in vitro research has been promising, the paucity of efficacy studies in animals has hindered the commercial development of effective antiviral drugs against the pestiviruses. In this article, we summarize the clinical syndromes and routes of transmission of BVD, CSF and border disease, discuss currently approved vaccines, review efforts to develop antiviral therapies for use in outbreak control and suggest promising directions for future research.


pmid: 15062473
title: Effect of bovine viral diarrhea virus in the feedlot
abstract: It could be argued that bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is one of the most economically significant infectious pathogens of feedlot cattle. Although the direct economic losses caused by this virus have not been well quantified, the role it plays as an immunosuppressive agent and as a potentiator for other diseases, most notably bovine respiratory disease, have been well documented. It is also a difficult disease for the feedlot veterinarian to control effectively. Individual cattle persistently infected with BVDV often serve as the source of infectious virus within a group of feedlot cattle, and the ultimate responsibility for preventing persistent infections in cattle rests with the cow-calf producer and not with the feedlot owner. The enormous impact of the virus on the livestock industry has led the Academy of Veterinary Consultants to draft a position statement that resolves that the beef and dairy industries adopt measures to control and target eventual eradication of BVDV from North America.


pmid: 34953294
title: Identification of differentially expressed gene pathways between cytopathogenic and non-cytopathogenic BVDV-1 strains by analysis of the transcriptome of infected primary bovine cells
abstract: The bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1), belonging to the Pestivirus genus, is characterized by the presence of two biotypes, cytopathogenic (cp) or non-cytopathogenic (ncp). For a better understanding of the host pathogen interactions, we set out to identify transcriptomic signatures of bovine lung primary cells (BPCs) infected with a cp or a ncp strain. For this, we used both a targeted approach by reverse transcription droplet digital PCR and whole genome approach using RNAseq. Data analysis showed 3571 differentially expressed transcripts over time (Fold Change >2) and revealed that the most deregulated pathways for cp strain are signaling pathways involved in responses to viral infection such as inflammatory response or apoptosis pathways. Interestingly, our data analysis revealed a deregulation of Wnt signaling pathway, a pathway described in embryogenesis, that was specifically seen with the BVDV-1 cp but not the ncp suggesting a role of this pathway in viral replication.


pmid: 7597862
title: Seroprevalence of bovine immunodeficiency-virus (BIV) antibodies in the cattle population in Germany
abstract: Serum samples from 380 cattle were analysed for the presence of bovine immunodeficiency-virus (BIV) antibodies by focus immunoassay (cell-ELISA) and immunofluorescence assay (IFA). All specimens originated from dairy farms in the eastern part of Germany, which had been randomly collected during the period 1989-1991. The cattle were clinically healthy and free of bovine leukaemia virus (BLV) and bovine-virus diarrhoea-virus (BVDV) antibodies. Infection of cell lines with BIV was monitored by syncytia formation, cell-ELISA, and immunofluorescence. The seroprevalence of BIV antibodies was 6.6%, as determined by cell-ELISA. Comparison of IFA and cell-ELISA showed that all IFA positive sera were also positive in cell-ELISA. However, additional sera were reactive only in cell-ELISA. This first report suggests that BIV infection may cause minor problems in German cattle, while BIV is present in a similar prevalence to that reported from other countries.


pmid: 1333126
title: Molecular cloning and nucleotide sequence of a pestivirus genome, noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus strain SD-1
abstract: Genomic RNA of noncytopathic (NCP) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strain SD-1 was extracted directly from serum obtained from a persistently infected animal. cDNA was synthesized and amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) before cloning. The complete genomic nucleotide sequence was determined by sequencing at least two different clones from independent PCR reactions. The 5' and 3' end sequences of the SD-1 genome was determined from 5'-3' ligation clones. The complete genome sequence was comprised of 12,308 nucleotides containing one large open reading frame which encodes an amino acid sequence of 3898 residues with a calculated molecular weight of 438 kDa. In contrast to cytopathic (CP) BVDV strain NADL, which contains a cellular RNA insert of 270 nucleotides and CP BVDV strain Osloss, which has an inserted ubiquitin RNA sequence of 228 nucleotides, the NCP strain SD-1 had no insertion along the genome. Sequence comparison with other pestiviruses revealed that the overall nucleotide sequence homologies of SD-1 are 88.6% with NADL, 78.3% with Osloss, 67.1% with HoCV Alfort, and 67.2% with HoCV Brescia. The overall deduced amino acid sequence homologies of SD-1 are 92.7% with NADL, 86.2% with Osloss, 72.5% with HoCV Alfort, and 71.2% with HoCV Brescia. The most conserved nucleotide and amino acid sequences are located in the 5' untranslated region (5'UTR) and nonstructural protein p80 region, respectively. The viral glycoproteins, particularly gp53, and nonstructural proteins p54 and p58 have the lowest homology comparing both nucleotide and amino acid sequences between SD-1 and other pestiviruses. Extensive analyses of amino acid sequences for the viral structural proteins and nonstructural protein p54 regions from five pestiviruses led to the identification of four conserved domains (designated as C1, C2, C3, C4) and three highly variable domains (designated as V1, V2, V3) within this region. The C1, C2, and C3 domains are located in the capsid protein p14, glycoprotein gp48, and gp25, respectively. The C4 domain is located in the junction between gp53 and p54. Interestingly, out of three variable domains, two (V1, V2) are located in the same glycoprotein gp53. The third variable domain is located in the nonstructural protein p54.


pmid: 31504608
title: Vitamin E supplementation strategies during feedlot receiving: effects on beef steer performance, antibody response to vaccination, and antioxidant defense1
abstract: This study utilized 204 Angus-based beef steers (249 ± 23 kg SD) from a single ranch with initial serum α-tocopherol concentrations of 3.9 ± 1.0 mg/L to determine the effect of varying doses of vitamin E (VE) on feedlot performance, antibody response to vaccination, and antioxidant defense. Seven days after arrival, steers were blocked by body weight and weaning protocol (preweaned, unweaned heavy, and unweaned light) and randomly assigned to pens within blocks (12 pens per block). Preweaned steers had been weaned for approximately 35 d prior to arrival, and unweaned steers were weaned when leaving the origin ranch. Pens within block were randomly assigned to supplemental VE (ROVIMIX E-50 Adsorbate, DSM Nutritional Products, Heerlen, The Netherlands) treatments (n = 9 pens per treatment): no supplemental VE (CON), 25 IU/kg dry matter (DM; LOW), 500 IU per steer daily (MED), or 1,000 IU per steer daily (HIGH). Back-calculated supplemental VE intake was 0, 151 (24.8 IU/kg DM), 484, and 995 IU/d for CON, LOW, MED, and HIGH, respectively. On day 6, all steers received a booster vaccine against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV; Bovi-Shield Gold, One Shot, Zoetis, Parsippany, NJ). Steers were weighed on day -1, 0, 14, 26, and 27. One steer per pen representative of the average body weight of the pen was chosen as a sampling animal for blood (day -1, 6, 14, 26, and 28) and liver (day -3 and 24). Data were analyzed as a randomized complete block design using Proc Mixed of SAS with pen as the experimental unit and the fixed effects of treatment and block. Linear, quadratic, and cubic contrast statements were constructed using Proc IML; morbidity data were analyzed using Proc Glimmix. Day 24 liver and day 26 serum α-tocopherol concentrations were linearly increased by supplemental VE (P < 0.01). Supplemental VE did not affect DM intake, average daily gain, or gain:feed from day 0 to 27 (P ≥ 0.37), or the percentage of steers treated for respiratory disease (P ≥ 0.44). Day 24 liver glutathione concentrations decreased linearly due to supplemental VE (P ≤ 0.02). Total- and Mn-superoxide dismutase activities were quadratically affected by supplemental VE (P ≤ 0.07), with MED steers exhibiting the greatest activity. Over time, BVDV type 1 and 2 antibody titers numerically decreased, whereas the decrease in BVDV type 1 titers was lesser for HIGH steers (linear P = 0.04). Increasing doses of VE improved VE status but did not affect overall receiving period performance in steers with minimal to adequate VE status upon arrival.


pmid: 27065152
title: Effects of two-stage weaning with nose flap devices applied to calves on cow body condition, calf performance, and calf humoral immune response
abstract: The effects of nose flap devices in calves before dam separation on cow BCS, pre- and postseparation calf performance, and humoral immune response were compared with traditional weaning. Primiparous and multiparous Angus and Hereford cows ( = 113) and their Angus, Hereford, and Angus × Hereford calves (179.4 ± 3.92 kg and 161 ± 22.7 d of age) were used. Cow-calf pairs were allocated to 1 of 2 treatments in a completely randomized design: 1) nose flap for 21 d before separation from the dam (NF) or 2) no nose flap for 21 d before separation from the dam (CON). Calves were separated from dams on d 0, and calves were placed in group feed-yard pens for 28 d. A subset ( = 75) of weaned calves were placed into 1 of 8 pens to evaluate DMI. Cow BCS was measured on d -21 and 56, and calves were given modified live vaccinations (d -21 and 1), challenged with ovalbumin (OVA; d 1), and weighed (d -21, 1, 7, 14, 21, and 28). In addition, blood samples were collected (d -21, 1, 14, and 28) to measure primary humoral immune response. Control calves tended to have greater BW on d 14 ( = 0.09) and 21 ( = 0.07) than NF calves, and CON calves had greater ( < 0.05) ADG from d -21 to 1 vs. NF calves. Treatments did not differ ( ≥ 0.27) for postweaning DMI, G:F, or morbidity. Serum neutralization tests for bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 (BVDV-1) and bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BHV-1) were used to measure humoral response to a viral vaccination. Serum antibody titers to BVDV-1 for CON calves tended ( = 0.08) to be greater on d 1 and were greater ( < 0.05) by d 28 vs. NF calves. By d 28, a greater percentage ( < 0.05) of CON calves seroconverted for BVDV-1 than NF calves (82.1 vs. 66.7%, respectively). Serum antibody titers for BHV-1 were greater ( < 0.05) on d 1 and 28 for CON vs. NF calves. Humoral immune response to OVA during the 28-d postseparation period from the dam was evaluated in a subset ( = 57) of calves. There was no difference ( = 0.92) in OVA-specific IgG between treatments on d 14 or 28 ( = 0.76); however, OVA-specific IgM was greater ( < 0.05) in CON vs. NF calves on d 28. Results indicate that nose flap devices did not influence feed intake, feed efficiency, or morbidity during the initial postseparation period from the dam. However, preweaning ADG, serum BVDV-1 and BHV-1 titers, and humoral immune response to OVA were decreased in calves that received the nose flap treatment.


pmid: 26123370
title: Evaluation of BHV-1 antibody titer in a cattle herd against different BHV-1 strains
abstract: Although modified-live multivalent vaccines, such as PregGuard GOLD and Bovi-Shield Gold, have been used routinely in both beef and dairy cattle in the US, abortion and respiratory diseases still occasionally occur following vaccination. To determine whether the antibody induced by the multivalent vaccine can recognize BHV-1 isolates from aborted animals, BHV-1 antibody titer was evaluated with two isolates from abortion cases and two vaccine BHV-1 viruses. Cattle serum was collected from a dairy herd that was vaccinated annually with Bovi-Shield Gold 5 vaccine. Among the 28 cattle tested, no statistical significant difference in serum neutralization titer was observed when test virus was either vaccine virus or clinical isolates. It suggests that the BHV-1 antibody from the vaccinated cattle can recognize both the vaccine virus and clinical isolates. However, it is noticed that cows at 5 years old or older had a significantly lower BHV-1 antibody titer on average than the average of SN titer in 3 year-old cows. Similarly, cows at 5 years or older had a significantly lower BVDV antibody titer than cows at about 2 years of age. In addition, cattle vaccinated within 0-2 months had a significantly higher BHV-1 titer than those that received vaccination 6 months or greater prior to titer measurement. In contrast, cattle that received a vaccination 6 months prior had a significantly higher anti-BVDV antibody titer than those vaccinated within 1-2 months. The BVDV antibody titers remained relatively unchanged between 6 months and 1 year post-vaccination. Our study suggests little antigenic variation exists between BHV-1 disease isolates and BHV-1 of the multivalent vaccines. In addition, BHV-1 antibody titer is relatively lower at 6 months post vaccination in those tested animals. However, the BVDV antibody titer remained relatively high after 6 months from time of vaccination.


pmid: 33582856
title: Identification and genotyping of a new subtype of bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 isolated from cattle with diarrhea
abstract: In 2019, diarrhea cases occurred on cattle farms in Qionglai and Guang'an, Sichuan Province. Two out of 20 (10%) serum and nasal swab samples were positive when tested using a bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) antigen-capture ELISA kit. Two non-cytopathic strains of BVDV were isolated and named QL1903 and GA190608, respectively. The nucleotide sequences of the genomes of the two isolates were 89.52% identical. Phylogenetic analysis based on the 5'-UTR sequence revealed that the BVDV isolate QL1903 belonged to BVDV subtype 1b, whereas isolate GA190608 clustered with strains HN1814, EN-19, and BJ09_26 in a separate branch, which has tentatively been classified as a new genetic subtype, "1v".


pmid: 10325368
title: Typing of bovine viral diarrhea viruses directly from blood of persistently infected cattle by multiplex PCR
abstract: A nested multiplex PCR was developed for genotyping of bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDVs). The assay could detect as little as 3 50% tissue culture infective doses of BVDV per ml and typed 42 out of 42 cell culture isolates. BVDV was also successfully typed, with or without RNA extraction, from all 27 whole-blood samples examined from 22 carriers or probable carriers and 5 experimentally infected cattle.


pmid: 22194225
title: Genetic variation of Border disease virus species strains
abstract: The 5'-untranslated region of Pestivirus strains isolated from domestic and wild animals were analysed to determine their taxonomic status according to nucleotide changes in the secondary genomic structure using the palindromic nucleotide substitutions (PNS) method. A total of 131 isolates out of 536 Pestivirus strains evaluated, were clustered as Border disease virus (BDV) species. The BDV strains were further divided into at least 8 genotypes or subspecies. Thirty-two isolates from small ruminants suffering from clinical symptoms of Border disease were clustered into bovine viral diarrhoea virus 1 (BVDV-1), BVDV-2 and classical swine fever (hog cholera) virus species and also into the tentative BDV-2 species. Since the definition of an infectious disease is based primarily on a specific causative pathogen and taking into account the heterogeneity of the genus Pestivirus, clinical cases should be named according to the laboratory results. The PNS procedure could be useful for laboratory diagnosis of Border disease in domestic and wild ruminants.


pmid: 21849202
title: Complementation studies with the novel "Bungowannah" virus provide new insights in the compatibility of pestivirus proteins
abstract: In recent years several atypical pestiviruses have been described. Bungowannah virus is the most divergent virus in this group. Therefore, heterologous complementation was used to clarify the phylogenetic relationship and to analyze the exchangeability of genome regions encoding structural proteins. Using a BVDV type 1 backbone, chimeric constructs with substituted envelope proteins E(rns), E1 and E2, were investigated. While all constructs replicated autonomously, infectious high titer chimeric virus could only be observed after exchanging the complete E1-E2 encoding region. The complementation of E1 and E2 alone resulted only in replicons. Complementation of BVDV-E(rns) was only efficient if Bungowannah virus-E(rns) was expressed from a bicistronic construct. Our data provide new insights in the compatibility of pestivirus proteins and demonstrate that heterologous complementation could be useful to characterize new pestiviruses.


pmid: 33160262
title: Interferon lambda protects cattle against bovine viral diarrhea virus infection
abstract: Interferon lambda (IFN-λ) plays an important role in inducing an antiviral state in mucosal surfaces and has been used as an effective biotherapeutic against several viral diseases. Here we performed a proof of concept study on the activity of a biologically active recombinant bovine IFN-λ (rIFN-λ) produced in eukaryotic cells against Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) in cattle. We first confirmed the lack of toxicity of different concentrations of rIFN-λ in bovine peripheral blood cells and the safety of its subcutaneous application in calves in doses up to 12 IU/kg. The antiviral activity of the rIFN-λ against BVDV was assessed in calves that were inoculated with 6 IU/kg of rIFN-λ (n = 4) or mock-treated (n = 2) two days before and after challenge with a BVDV type-2 non-cytopathic strain. Mock-treated animals developed respiratory disease, shedded the virus from 4 to 7 days post-infection (dpi) and had viremia between 4 and 14 dpi. Conversely, calves treated with rIFN-λ did not develop clinical symptoms. The virus was not found in nasal secretions or sera. Only one animal had a positive viral RNA detection in serum at 7 dpi. All infected animals treated with rIFN-λ increased systemic type-I IFNs levels at 4 dpi. The antiviral treatment induced an earlier onset of the anti-BVDV neutralizing antibodies. Altogether, these results constitute the proof-of-principle of bovine IFN-λ as an antiviral biotherapeutic to protect cattle against the clinical disease caused by BVDV.


pmid: 25227419
title: Comparison of serum, ear notches, and nasal and saliva swabs for Bovine viral diarrhea virus antigen detection in colostrum-fed persistently infected (PI) calves and non-PI calves
abstract: The diagnosis of neonatal and young calves persistently infected (PI) with Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) by antigen-capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ACE) may be complicated by interference from colostrum-derived specific antibodies. Ten calves, with 3 calves identified as PI and 7 as non-PI were used in the current study. All non-PI calves were shown to be seropositive for BVDV-specific antibodies by antibody enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Ab-ELISA) on serum. Serum samples, ear notch samples, and nasal and saliva swabs were collected from each calf from birth until 12 weeks of age and tested by ELISA for BVDV-specific antigen and antibodies. Following colostrum ingestion, Ab-ELISA sample-to-positive (S/P) ratios rose by a mean of 0.95 (95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.64-1.25) and 1.72 (95% CI = 1.55-1.89) in seropositive, non-PI calves and in PI calves, respectively. The mean S/P ratios then declined to approximately 1.1 in non-PI calves and 0.5 in PI calves at between 60 and 80 days of age. In PI calves, testing for antigen in serum and nasal and saliva swabs was subject to interference by colostrum-derived antibodies in calves up to 3 weeks of age. Nasal swabs were less affected than serum and saliva swabs. Ear notches maintained positive ACE corrected optical densities at all sample times, despite a drop in the signal following the ingestion of colostrum.


pmid: 11602707
title: Isolation and characterization of noncytopathic pestivirus mutants reveals a role for nonstructural protein NS4B in viral cytopathogenicity
abstract: Isolates of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), the prototype pestivirus, are divided into cytopathic (cp) and noncytopathic (ncp) biotypes according to their effect on cultured cells. The cp viruses also differ from ncp viruses by the production of viral nonstructural protein NS3. However, the mechanism by which cp viruses induce cytopathic effect in cell culture remains unknown. Here we used a genetic approach to isolate ncp variants that arose from a cp virus at low frequency. A bicistronic BVDV (cp strain NADL) was created that expressed puromycin acetyltransferase as a dominant selectable marker. This bicistronic virus exhibited slightly slower growth kinetics and smaller plaques than NADL but remained cp. A number of independent ncp variants were isolated by puromycin selection. Remarkably, these ncp variants produced NS3 and viral RNA at levels comparable to those of the cp parent. Sequence analyses uncovered no change in NS3, but for all ncp variants a Y2441C substitution at residue 15 of NS4B was found. Introduction of the Y2441C substitution into the NADL or bicistronic cp viruses reconstituted the ncp phenotype. Y2441 is highly conserved among pestiviruses and is located in a region of NS4B predicted to be on the cytosolic side of the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Other engineered substitutions for Y2441 also affected viral cytopathogenicity and viability, with Y2441V being cp, Y2441A being ncp, and Y2441D rendering the virus unable to replicate. The ncp substitutions for Y2441 resulted in slightly increased levels of NS2-3 relative to NS3. We also showed that NS3, NS4B, and NS5A could be chemically cross-linked in NADL-infected cells, indicating that they are associated as components of a multiprotein complex. Although the mechanism remains to be elucidated, these results demonstrate that mutations in NS4B can attenuate BVDV cytopathogenicity despite NS3 production.


pmid: 16427711
title: Factors affecting sensitivity and specificity of pooled-sample testing for diagnosis of low prevalence infections
abstract: Testing of pooled samples has been proposed as a low-cost alternative for diagnostic screening and surveillance for infectious agents in situations where the prevalence of infection is low and most samples can be expected to test negative. The present study extends our previous work in pooled-sample testing (PST) to evaluate effects of the following factors on the overall PST sensitivity (SE(k)) and specificity (SP(k)): dilution (pool size), cross-contamination, and cross-reaction. A probabilistic model, in conjunction with Monte Carlo simulations, was used to calculate SE(k) and SP(k), as applied to detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) persistently infected (PI) animals using RT-PCR. For an average prevalence of BVDV PI of 0.01 and viremia in each animal between 10(2) and 10(7)virusparticles/mL, the pool size associated with the lowest number of tests, and lowest cost, corresponded to eight samples/pool. However, the least-cost pool size (lowest number of tests) was associated with a SE(k) of 0.90 (0.75-1), which corresponded to a decrease of 0.04, relative to the assay sensitivity for a single sample. The SP(k) for the same pool size, considering the effect of detection of BVDV acutely infected animals and cross-contamination as source of false positive results, was 0.90 (0.85-0.95). The effect of a hypothetical cross-reacting agent was to markedly decrease SP(k), especially as the prevalence of the cross-reacting agent increased. For a pool size of eight samples and a prevalence of the cross-reacting agent of 0.3, SP(k) ranged from 0.67 to 0.86, depending on the probability that the assay would detect the cross-reacting agent. The methods presented offer a means of evaluating and understanding the various factors that can influence overall accuracy of PST procedures.


pmid: 16378992
title: The amino-terminal domain of bovine viral diarrhea virus Npro protein is necessary for alpha/beta interferon antagonism
abstract: The alpha/beta interferon (IFN-alpha/beta) system is the first line of defense against viral infection and a critical link between the innate and adaptive immune responses. IFN-alpha/beta secretion is the hallmark of cellular responses to acute RNA virus infections. As part of their survival strategy, many viruses have evolved mechanisms to counteract the host IFN-alpha/beta response. Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) (genus Pestivirus) was reported to trigger interferon production in infected cultured cells under certain circumstances or to suppress it under others. Our studies with various cultured fibroblasts and epithelial bovine cells indicated that cytopathic (cp) BVDV induces IFN-alpha/beta very inefficiently. Using a set of engineered cp BVDVs expressing mutant Npro and appropriate controls, we found that the IFN-alpha/beta response to infection was dependent on Npro expression and independent of viral replication efficiency. In order to investigate whether the protease activity of Npro is required for IFN-alpha/beta antagonism, we engineered Npro mutants lacking protease activity by replacement of amino acid E22, H49, or C69. We found that E22 and H49 substitutions abolished the ability of Npro to suppress IFN, whereas C69 had no effect, suggesting that the structural integrity of the N terminus of Npro was more important than its catalytic activity for IFN-alpha/beta suppression. A catalytically active mutant with a change at a conserved Npro region near the N terminus (L8P) in both BVDV biotypes did not antagonize IFN-alpha/beta production, confirming its involvement in this process. Taken together, these results not only provide direct evidence for the role of Npro in blocking IFN-alpha/beta induction, but also implicate the amino-terminal domain of the protein in this function.


pmid: 12560578
title: Insertion of cellular sequence and RNA recombination in the structural protein coding region of cytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: The cytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhoea virus (cp BVDV) strain KS86-1cp was isolated from a calf persistently infected with the noncytopathogenic (ncp) strain KS86-1ncp after it was exposed to cp BVDV strain Nose and developed mucosal disease (MD). Molecular analysis revealed that an insertion of a cellular gene and a duplication of the viral RNA encoding the nucleocapsid protein C and part of N(pro) had occurred in the C coding region of the Nose and KS86-1cp genomes. The inserted cellular gene was closely related to the cINS sequence. Remarkably, the 5' upstream region from the insertion of KS86-1cp had high sequence identity to that of Nose, but differed from that of KS86-1ncp. In contrast, the region downstream from the insertion of KS86-1cp showed high identity to KS86-1ncp, but not to Nose. These data reveal that KS86-1cp is a chimeric virus generated by homologous RNA recombination in a calf with MD.


pmid: 11436606
title: [Risk and economics of disease introduction to dairy farms]
abstract: A more closed farming system will enhance the success of disease eradication programmes, because the introduction or re-introduction of infectious diseases is less likely. The objective of the study was to obtain input for the development of an on-farm decision support model to calculate the economic consequences of a more closed farming system. The input was based on bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV1), since there were numerous data on this disease, but a more closed farming system will prevent introduction of other diseases as well (i.e. bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV), L. hardjo, and S. dublin). Direct animal contacts, such as purchase of cattle, participation in cattle shows, and cattle that escape and mingle with other cattle, were found to be important risk factors for the introduction of BHV1. Furthermore, the use of protective farm clothing was found to be an important preventive factor. The effect of an IBR outbreak at an IBR-free farm on milk production caused limited losses of on average 0.9 kg per cow per day during 9 weeks, but the variability was high (95% CI 0-2 kg). Nine percent of Dutch IBR-free dairy farms that were also at risk for BVDV, L. hardjo or S. dublin had one introduction per year of one of these four diseases. All these results were incorporated in the economic model. Management measures to reduce the probability of introduction of BHV1, the costs of these measures, and the risk reduction after these measures were obtained from other sources. The calculations showed that the implementation of a more closed system will be profitable for most farms. The profitability will increase when a farm is at risk for more diseases, but will decrease when farms are limited in their facilities to rear replacement heifers or when a large proportion of pasture adjoins pasture of other cattle farms.


pmid: 10915606
title: NS3 serine protease of bovine viral diarrhea virus: characterization of active site residues, NS4A cofactor domain, and protease-cofactor interactions
abstract: The gene expression of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a pestivirus, occurs via translation of a hypothetical polyprotein that is processed cotranslationally and posttranslationally by viral and cellular enzymes. A protease located in the N-terminal region of nonstructural (NS) protein NS3 catalyzes the cleavages, leading to the release of NS4A, NS4B, NS5A, and NS5B. Our study provides experimental evidence that histidine at position 1658 and aspartic acid at position 1686 constitute together with the previously identified serine at position 1752 (S1752) the catalytic triad of the pestiviral NS3 serine protease. Interestingly, a mutant protease encompassing an exchange of the active site S1752 to threonine still showed residual activity. This finding links the NS3 protease of pestiviruses to the capsid protease of Sindbis virus. Furthermore, we observed that the minimal protease domain of NS3 encompasses about 209 amino acids. The NS3 protease was found to be sensitive to N-terminal truncation because a deletion of 6 amino acids significantly reduced the cleavage efficiency at the NS4A/4B site. Larger N-terminal deletions also impaired the activity of the enzyme with respect to the other cleavage sites but to a different degree at each site. The NS3 protease of BVDV has previously been shown to depend on NS4A as cofactor. We demonstrate here that the central region of NS4A represents the cofactor domain. Furthermore, coprecipitation studies strongly suggest an interaction between NS4A and the N-terminal region of NS3. Besides the remarkable similarities observed between the pestiviral NS3 protease and the corresponding enzyme of hepatitis C virus (HCV), our results suggest a common ancestry between these enzymes and the capsid protease of Sindbis virus.


pmid: 22688584
title: Systemic distribution of viral antigen in alpacas persistently infected with bovine pestivirus
abstract: Recently, confirmed occurrences of persistent bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection in North American alpacas have raised concerns about the role of persistently infected (PI) alpacas in transmission of virus among herds, yet only limited pathological descriptions of persistent infections in alpacas have been reported. The objective of this study was to characterize BVDV antigen distribution in 10 PI alpacas of varying age and to compare viral antigen distribution and localization in tissues of PI alpacas with 5 PI calves of varying age. Ocular dysplasia was evident in 1 PI alpaca, constituting the first reported congenital ocular lesion in PI alpacas. Viral antigen was widely distributed in alpaca tissues and was prominent in neurons, endothelial cells, and vascular tunica media myocytes but had limited distribution in lymphoid tissues and moderate distribution in epithelium of several organ systems of alpacas. Macrophages in the alpaca gastrointestinal system submucosa and lymph node medullary sinuses often had prominent labeling. In addition, only 1 alpaca had antigen labeling in the bone marrow in contrast to PI cattle. Labeled cells in calf tissues were more widely distributed, occurring prominently in lymphoid and epithelial tissues. Common features of the 2 host species were widespread antigen labeling and absence of lymphoid depletion.


pmid: 19480144
title: Seroprevalence of antibodies against pestiviruses in small ruminants in The Netherlands
abstract: In this study, a serological survey was performed to determine the prevalence of pestivirus (bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and border disease virus (BDV)) infected small ruminants herds in the Netherlands. After random selection of sheep farms, a sample size was determined to detect a 5% herd prevalence. 13 out of 29 farms were tested seropositive using an ELISA which detects antibodies directed against the non structural protein 3 (NS3) of pestiviruses. This resulted in a seroprevalence for the Netherlands of 45% [0.36; 0.54]. The within farm prevalence ranged from 4 till 65%. Using a virus neutralization assay, specific anti-BDV antibodies could be detected on two farms, while on one other farm anti-BVDV antibodies were present. On four farms antibodies to both viruses could be detected, on three of these farms antibodies against both viruses were equally present. At five farms that tested positive in the NS3-ELISA we were unable to detect pestivirus neutralizing antibodies in all sera using the VN test. This resulted in an estimated prevalence using the VN for the Netherlands of 28% [0.20; 0.60]. An additional survey in sera from dairy goats revealed that 34 out of 126 farms were serological positive resulting in a seroprevalence of 27% [0.23; 0.31], with a herd prevalence of 32% ranging from 1-100%.


pmid: 31002724
title: A recombinant bovine herpesvirus-4 vectored vaccine delivered via intranasal nebulization elicits viral neutralizing antibody titers in cattle
abstract: Recombinant herpesvirus vaccine vectors offer distinct advantages in next-generation vaccine development, primarily due to the ability to establish persistent infections to provide sustainable antigen responses in the host. Recombinant bovine herpesvirus-4 (BoHV-4) has been previously shown to elicit protective immunity in model laboratory animal species against a variety of pathogens. For the first time, we describe the induction of antigen-specific immune responses to two delivered antigens in the host species after intranasal nebulization of recombinant BoHV-4 expressing the chimeric peptide containing the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) glycoprotein E2 and the bovine herpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1) glycoprotein D (BoHV-4-A-CMV-IgK-gE2gD-TM). In this study, four cattle were immunized via intranasal nebulization with the recombinant BoHV-4 construct. Two of the cattle were previously infected with wild-type BoHV-4, and both developed detectable serologic responses to BVDV and BoHV-1. All four immunized cattle developed detectable viral neutralizing antibody responses to BVDV, and one steer developed a transient viral neutralizing response to BoHV-1. Approximately one year after immunization, immunosuppressive doses of the glucocorticoid dexamethasone were administered intravenously to all four cattle. Within two weeks of immunosuppression, all animals developed viral neutralizing antibody responses to BoHV-1, and all animals maintained BVDV viral neutralizing capacity. Overall, nebulization of BoHV-4-A-CMV-IgK-gE2gD-TM persistently infects cattle, is capable of eliciting antigen-specific immunity following immunization, including in the presence of pre-existing BoHV-4 immunity, and recrudescence of the virus boosts the immune response to BoHV-4-vectored antigens. These results indicate that BoHV-4 is a viable and attractive vaccine delivery platform for use in cattle.


pmid: 29885794
title: Congenital tremor in piglets: Is bovine viral diarrhea virus an etiological cause?
abstract: Congenital tremor in pigs involves several etiologies, including pestivirus, which may cause neurological injuries in different animal species. To evaluate whether bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), an important pestivirus, is one of the etiological agents of congenital tremor in swine, gilts and the fetuses were challenged at 45 days of gestation with BVDV-2. Four pregnant gilts were inoculated oronasally, four gilts underwent fetal intrauterine inoculation, and two gilts constituted the control group. Antibody titers were determined by virus neutralization (VN), and viral RNA was detected by RT-PCR. Blood samples were collected from all gilts and piglets born to obtain whole blood and serum for analysis. One third of the neonates were euthanized at three days old, and samples of the encephalon, brain stem and spinal cord were collected for anatomopathological evaluation and viral RNA detection. The piglets that remained alive were clinically evaluated every day, and blood sampling was performed regularly for 35 days. The piglets from gilts in both inoculation treatment groups showed no clinical neurological signs and were born with no viral RNA in their blood and organs. Piglets born from oronasally inoculated gilts did not present antibodies against BVDV-2 at birth, although they were acquired by passive maternal transfer. In contrast, intrauterine-inoculated piglets were born with high antibody titers (80 to 640) against the agent, which remained high until the end of the experimental period. Microscopically, no noticeable changes were observed. Macroscopically, 29.5% of the total piglets euthanized, from both inoculation groups, were born with a low cerebellar:brain ratio. Nevertheless, some piglets had a high cerebellar:brain ratio, indicating the need for standardizing this value. Thus, it was concluded that BVDV is not an etiological agent for congenital swine tremor.


pmid: 19428605
title: A pyrazolotriazolopyrimidinamine inhibitor of bovine viral diarrhea virus replication that targets the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase
abstract: [7-[3-(1,3-Benzodioxol-5-yl)propyl]-2-(2-furyl)-7H-pyrazolo[4,3-e][1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidin-5-amine] (LZ37) was identified as a selective inhibitor of in vitro bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) replication. The EC(50) values for inhibition of BVDV-induced cytopathic effect (CPE) formation, viral RNA synthesis and production of infectious virus were 4.3+/-0.7microM, 12.9+/-1microM and 5.8+/-0.6microM, respectively. LZ37 proved inactive against the hepatitis C virus and the flavivirus yellow fever. LZ37 inhibits BVDV replication at a time point that coincides with the onset of intracellular viral RNA synthesis. Drug-resistant mutants carried the F224Y mutation in the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp). LZ37 showed cross-resistance with the imidazopyrrolopyridine AG110 [which selects for the E291G drug resistance mutation] as well as with the imidazopyridine BPIP [which selects for the F224S drug-resistant mutation]. LZ37 did not inhibit the in vitro activity of purified recombinant BVDV RdRp. Molecular modelling revealed that F224 is located near the tip of the finger domain of the RdRp. Docking of LZ37 in the crystal structure of the BVDV RdRp revealed several potential contacts including: (i) hydrophobic contacts of LZ37 with A221, A222, G223, F224 and A392; (ii) a stacking interaction between F224 side chain and the ring system of LZ37 and (iii) a hydrogen bond between the amino function of LZ37 and the O backbone atom of A392. It is concluded that LZ37 interacts with the same binding site as BPIP or VP32947 at the top of the finger domain of the polymerase that is a "hot spot" for inhibition of pestivirus replication.


pmid: 11027808
title: Chimeric classical swine fever viruses containing envelope protein E(RNS) or E2 of bovine viral diarrhoea virus protect pigs against challenge with CSFV and induce a distinguishable antibody response
abstract: Three chimeric classical swine fever virus (CSFV)/bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) full-length DNA copies were constructed, based on the infectious DNA copy of the CSFV vaccine strain C. The antigenic region of E2 and/or the complete E(RNS) gene were replaced by the analogous sequence of BVDV II strain 5250. Viable chimeric virus Flc11, in which E(RNS) was replaced, was directly recovered from supernatant of SK6.T7 cells transfected with full-length DNA. Viable chimeric virus Flc9, in which E2 was replaced, resulted in recovery of virus only when SK6.T7 transfected cells were maintained for several passages. However, no virus could be recovered after replacement of both E(RNS) and E2, even after 10 cell passages. Both Flc9 and Flc11 grow in swine kidney cells (SK6), stably maintain their heterologous BVDV sequences and, as assessed by monoclonal antibody typing and radio-immunoprecipitation assays, express their heterologous proteins. Flc9 showed a slower growth rate on SK6 cells than Flc11 and wild-type Flc2 virus. Replacement of E(RNS) or E2 of C-strain-based chimeric viruses did not alter cell tropism compared to wild-type C-strain virus for SK6 and FBE cells. Both Flc9 and Flc11 induced E2 or E(RNS) antibodies, which could be discriminated from those induced after wild-type virus infection, even after repeated vaccination. Furthermore, pigs were completely protected against a lethal CSFV challenge. These results indicate the feasibility of introduction of marker antigens in a live-attenuated marker C-strain vaccine for CSFV.


pmid: 26586332
title: Noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 impairs virus control in a mouse model
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is an economically important pathogen that causes development of mild to severe clinical signs in wild and domesticated ruminants. We previously showed that mice could be infected by BVDV. In the present study, we infected mice intraperitoneally with non-cytopathic (ncp) BVDV1 or ncp BVDV2, harvested the blood and organs of the infected mice at days 4, 7, 10 and 14 postinfection (pi), and performed immunohistochemical analyses to confirm BVDV infection. Viral antigens were detected in the spleens of all infected mice from days 4 through 14 and were also found in the mesenteric lymph nodes, gut-associated lymphoid tissue (GALT), heart, kidney, intestine, and bronchus-associated lymphoid tissue (BALT) of some infected mice. In ncp BVDV2-infected mice, flow cytometric analysis revealed markedly fewer CD4(+) and CD8(+) T lymphocytes and lower expression of costimulatory molecules CD80 (B7-1) and CD86 (B7-2) and major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II (I-A/I-E) than those in ncp BVDV1-infected mice. Production of the cytokines interleukin (IL)-6 and monocyte chemotactic protein (MCP)-1 was higher in the plasma of ncp BVDV2-infected mice than that in that of ncp BVDV1-infected mice. Our results demonstrate that ncp BVDV1 and ncp BVDV2 interact differently with the host innate immune response in vivo. These findings highlight an important distinction between ncp BVDV1 and ncp BVDV2 and suggest that ncp BVDV2 impairs the host's ability to control the infection and enhances virus dissemination.


pmid: 25292193
title: Abortion in cattle due to infection with Staphylococcus lugdunensis
abstract: An aborted fetus of 7 months gestation, the associated placenta, and a single blood sample from the dam were submitted for diagnostic investigation to the diagnostic laboratory of the Lombardy and Emilia-Romagna Experimental Zooprophylactic Institute in Parma, Italy. The serum was negative for Neospora caninum, Coxiella burnetii, Chlamydophila abortus, Bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1), Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), Brucella abortus, and Brucella melitensis. Fetal tissues and placental cotyledons were pooled and tested by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for the presence of BHV-1, Bovine herpesvirus 4, BVDV, N. caninum, C. burnetii, Chlamydophila spp., Schmallemberg virus, and Leptospira interrogans. All PCR assays were negative. Bacteriological examinations performed on the fetal organs revealed a pure growth of Staphylococcus lugdunensis in all organs cultured. In human beings, S. lugdunensis is responsible for community-acquired and nosocomial infections, in both immunocompetent and immunocompromised patients. In veterinary medicine, the pathogenic potential of S. lugdunensis has not been fully investigated. The incidence of S. lugdunensis is regarded as being underreported because it could be easily misidentified as Staphylococcus aureus. The current report documents the ability of S. lugdunensis to cause abortion in cattle, indicating the need for accurate diagnostic procedures to identify this emerging and zoonotic pathogen whose incidence is likely underestimated in both human and veterinary medicine.


pmid: 18653456
title: Cytopathogenicity of classical Swine Fever virus correlates with attenuation in the natural host
abstract: For the important livestock pathogens classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), cytopathogenic (cp) and non-cp viruses are distinguished according to the induction of apoptosis in infected tissue culture cells. However, it is currently unknown whether cp CSFV differs from non-cp CSFV with regard to virulence in the acutely infected host. In this study, we generated helper virus-independent CSFV Alfort-Jiv, which encompasses sequences encoding domain Jiv-90 of cellular J-domain protein interacting with viral protein (Jiv). Expanding the knowledge of BVDV, our results suggest that Jiv acts as a regulating cofactor for the nonstructural (NS) protein NS2 autoprotease of CSFV and initiates NS2-3 cleavage in trans. For Alfort-Jiv, the resulting expression of large amounts of NS3 correlated with increased viral RNA synthesis and viral cytopathogenicity. Moreover, both cp Alfort-Jiv and the parental non-cp CSFV strain Alfort-p447 efficiently replicate in cell culture. Animal experiments demonstrated that in contrast to parental non-cp Alfort-p447, infection with cp Alfort-Jiv did not cause disease in pigs but induced high levels of neutralizing antibodies, thus elucidating that cp CSFV is highly attenuated in its natural host. In contrast to virulent Alfort-p447, the attenuated CSFV strain Alfort-Jiv induces the expression of cellular Mx protein in porcine PK-15 cells. Accordingly, the remarkable difference between cp and non-cp CSFV with regard to the ability to cause classical swine fever in pigs correlates with different effects of cp and non-cp CSFV on cellular antiviral defense mechanisms.


pmid: 11021426
title: Malignant catarrhal fever: polymerase chain reaction survey for ovine herpesvirus 2 and other persistent herpesvirus and retrovirus infections of dairy cattle and bison
abstract: Using a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test for sequences of ovine herpesvirus 2 (OHV2), this virus was shown to be significantly associated with sheep-associated malignant catarrhal fever (SA-MCF) in terminal cases of disease in 34 cattle and 53 bison. Ovine herpesvirus 2 was not detected in cattle (38) and bison (10) that succumbed to other diseases. Other persistent herpesviruses, retroviruses, and pestivirus, some of which have been previously isolated from cases of SA-MCF, were not associated with the disease. These included bovine herpesvirus 4 (BHV4), bovine lymphotrophic herpesvirus (BLHV), bovine syncytial virus (BSV, also known as bovine spumavirus), bovine immunodeficiency virus (BIV), and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). A PCR survey for OHV2 in DNA from individual cow's peripheral blood lymphocytes in 4 dairies showed that the 1 dairy that was in close contact to sheep had a prevalence of OHV2 of 21.3%, whereas the 3 other dairies had no OHV2. Prevalence of the other herpesviruses and retroviruses in the dairy cows was variable, ranging from 2% to 51% for BHV4, 52% to 78.7% for BLHV, and 10% to 34% for BSV. Bovine lymphotrophic herpesvirus and BSV were also found in a few (1-4 of 21 tested) cases of terminal SA-MCF, but BIV and BVDV were not found in either the dairy cows sampled, or in the cases of SA-MCE No significant correlation was found between the presence of any 2 viruses (OHV2, BHV4, BLHV, BSV) in the dairy cows or terminal cases of SA-MCE


pmid: 9502270
title: Experimental mucosal disease of cattle: changes in cell proliferation in lymphoid tissues and intestinal epithelium
abstract: In mucosal disease of cattle, the initial and most severe lesions are found in the lymphoid follicles and intestinal crypts, both sites showing a high cell proliferation rate. In the present study, the changes in the number and distribution of proliferating cells were investigated immunohistologically, by demonstrating the proliferation-associated nuclear antigen, Ki-67. Tissues were obtained from 30 cattle, all of which had a persistent natural infection with non-cytopathogenic (ncp) bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV), and 22 of which were subsequently inoculated with antigenically closely related strains of cytopathogenic (cp) BVDV to produce mucosal disease (MD); the remaining eight cattle served as uninoculated controls. Twelve of the inoculated cattle were killed before the onset of clinical signs of MD ("early phase"), and 10 when they were moribund ("late phase"). In the controls, the lymphoid follicles in lymph nodes and Peyer's patches consisted predominantly of Ki-67-positive cells; high numbers of such cells were observed in the crypts of the small intestine and moderate numbers in the crypts of the large intestine. In the early phase of MD, the number of Ki-67-positive cells in the lymphoid follicles and in the domes of the Peyer's patches gradually decreased; but in the mucosa, foci of crypts with increased numbers of Ki-67-positive cells were observed. In the late phase of MD, only a few Ki-67-positive cells were present in the lymphoid follicles. There was an increase in the number of Ki-67-positive cells in most crypts in the small and large intestine, but foci of crypts without Ki-67-positive cells occurred.


pmid: 8393084
title: Nucleotide sequence of the bovine viral diarrhoea virus Osloss strain: comparison with related viruses and identification of specific DNA probes in the 5' untranslated region
abstract: The nucleotide sequence of the cytopathic Osloss isolate of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was deduced from overlapping cDNA clones and from PCR products. The Osloss genome is an RNA molecule of positive polarity containing 12,480 nucleotides and having the capacity to code for a polyprotein of 3975 amino acids. The presence of the previously described internal stop codon in this viral sequence was disproved after direct sequencing of the appropriate PCR-amplified fragment. Except for the previously reported insertion of a sequence coding for a ubiquitin-like protein, the viral genome shares great similarity with those of three other strains of the pestivirus genus. Computer-assisted sequence analyses and comparisons of known pestiviral genomic sequences led us to identify selected PCR primers in the 5' untranslated region. These primers were used successfully to amplify 18 distinct pestivirus isolates and potential DNA probes were noted from the deduced sequences. The possible use of a well conserved 26 base fragment as a diagnostic probe was confirmed in hybridization experiments. The 5' untranslated region was further studied and compared with those of other members of the Flaviviridae family, which includes the flaviviruses and the hepatitis C virus group. These sequence analyses support the possibility of discrimination amongst the closely related ruminant pestiviruses, border disease virus and BVDV.


pmid: 2162104
title: Molecular cloning and nucleotide sequence of hog cholera virus strain Brescia and mapping of the genomic region encoding envelope protein E1
abstract: Genomic RNA of hog cholera virus (HCV) strain Brescia was cloned and sequenced. The nucleotide sequence was deduced from overlapping cDNA clones and comprises 12,283 nucleotides. We cloned the complete 3' end of the HCV genome, but could not unequivocally prove that the cDNA sequence also completely covers HCV RNA at the 5' end. The HCV genome contained one large open reading frame, which spans the viral plus strand RNA and encodes an amino acid sequence of 3898 residues with a calculated molecular weight of 438,300. To identify structural HCV glycoproteins, we prepared rabbit antisera against three synthetic peptides deduced from the sequence. Because one of these antisera reacted with a 51- to 54-kDa glycoprotein (envelope protein E1 of HCV) on Western blot, the genomic position of the sequence encoding gp51-54 could be clearly established. The amino acid sequence of Brescia was compared with that of HCV strain Alfort and that of BVDV strains NADL and Osloss. The degree of homology between the two HCV strains was 93%, and between Brescia and the BVDV strains about 70%. NADL contained an inserted sequence of 90 amino acids that was absent from the sequences of Brescia, Alfort, and Osloss, whereas Osloss contained an inserted sequence of 76 amino acids that was absent from the sequences of Brescia, Alfort, and NADL. Sequences in p80, the most homologous protein among pestiviruses, showed similarity to six sequence motifs found conserved in helicase-like proteins represented by eIF-4A. Furthermore, a trypsin-like serine protease domain detected in p80 of BVDV was also found conserved in HCV, suggesting that pestivirus p80 may be bifunctional.


pmid: 22785055
title: In vitro replication activity of bovine viral diarrhea virus in an epithelial cell line and in bovine peripheral blood mononuclear cells
abstract: The present study focused on the in vitro infection of Madin-Darby bovine kidney (MDBK) cells and bovine peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from naÏve animals with non-cytopathic (ncp, BVDV-1b NY-1) and cytopathic (cp, BVDV-1a NADL) strains. Infections with 0.1 and 1 multiplicity of infections (MOI) and incubation times of 18 and 36 hr were compared. Twelve BVDV naÏve heifers were enrolled to collect PBMCs. The viral loads in MDBK cells and in PBMCs after in vitro infections were measured by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays. The highest viral loads were measured at 1 MOI and 36 hr post infection in both cell systems and the lowest at 0.1 MOI and 18 hr with the exception of the cp strain NADL in PBMCs, for which the highest viral load was observed at 0.1 MOI and 36 hr. Viral load mean values were higher for the cp strain than the ncp strain irrespective of the extent of the infection period and MOI. The models of infection studied uncovered different replication activities respectively according to the biotype of virus, the cell substrate and the duration of infection. Replication tends to be higher in PBMCs, particularly at low MOIs and for the ncp strain.


pmid: 21842445
title: Molecular detection of pestiviruses in aborted foetuses from provinces in northern Turkey
abstract: All pestiviruses are important veterinary pathogens causing economic losses in cattle, sheep and pigs. Besides the important economical losses, pestiviruses may compromise the normal immune response to other pathogens and increase the severity of other infections in sheep. In this study, aborted foetuses (cattle and sheep) in either coastal or inland Black Sea region of Turkey were surveyed for the presence of RNA from pestiviruses (bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), border disease virus (BDV)). The presence of BVDV RNA was found in 6 of 21 aborted calves (28.57%), although BDV RNA was detected in 14 of 21 aborted lambs (66.66%) by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. This study also investigates the distribution of viral RNA within the brain, liver and lung of aborted foetuses. The viral RNA positivity rates for the organs varied and were as follows: brain 40.47% and liver and lung 38.09%. The results revealed that pestiviruses are important abort pathogen in the provinces of northern Turkey.


pmid: 22946369
title: A serologic survey of viral infections in captive ungulates in Turkish zoos
abstract: Zoos and zoologic gardens make optimal environments for interspecies transmission of viral infections. There are seven zoos and several small zoologic collections in Turkey. This study aimed to determine the current status of viral infections in captive ungulates living in these environments. Blood samples were taken from 163 captive animals from two zoos. There were 39 Cameroon sheep (Ovis ammon f aries), 11 Barbary sheep (Ammotragus lervia), 57 pygmy goats (Capra hircus), 9 Angora goats (Capra hircus), 21 mountain goats (Capra aegagrus-aegagrus), 7 llamas (Lama glama), 8 Persian goitred gazelle (Gazella subgutturosa subgutturosa), 7 Caspian red deer (Cervus elaphus maral), 2 fallow deer (Dama dama), and 2 camels (Camelus dromedarius). Antibodies against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), bovine adenoviruses (BAV-1 and -3), parainfluenzavirus 3 (PI-3), and bluetongue viruses (BTV-4 and -9) were investigated using the virus neutralization test, and malignant catarrhal fever (MCF) antibodies were screened by ELISA. All animals were negative for BVDV and BHV-1 antibodies. Seroprevalence of BAV-1, BAV-3, PI-3, BRSV, BT-4, BT-9, and MCF were detected as follows: 46.6%, 60.1%, 0.6%, 7.3%, 1.8%, 1.2%, and 51.6%, respectively. Seroprevalence of BAVs and MCF were more common than all other viruses (P < 0.0001). Ten sheep (37.0%), 48 goats (84.2), and 1 Ilama (14.2%) were the only species positive for MCF antibodies. Prevalence of BRSV and MCF antibodies were found to be significantly higher in goats than in sheep. BTV antibodies were detected both in Cameroon sheep and mountain goats and suggest that zoo animals are at risk for BTV in endemic regions.


pmid: 27012913
title: Quillaja brasiliensis saponins induce robust humoral and cellular responses in a bovine viral diarrhea virus vaccine in mice
abstract: A saponin fraction extracted from Quillaja brasiliensis leaves (QB-90) and a semi-purified aqueous extract (AE) were evaluated as adjuvants in a bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) vaccine in mice. Animals were immunized on days 0 and 14 with antigen plus either QB-90 or AE or an oil-adjuvanted vaccine. Two-weeks after boosting, antibodies were measured by ELISA; cellular immunity was evaluated by DTH, lymphoproliferation, cytokine release and single cell IFN-γ production. Serum anti-BVDV IgG, IgG1 and IgG2b were significantly increased in QB-90- and AE-adjuvanted vaccines. A robust DTH response, increased splenocyte proliferation, Th1-type cytokines and enhanced production of IFN-γ by CD4(+) and CD8(+) T lymphocytes were detected in mice that received QB-90-adjuvanted vaccine. The AE-adjuvanted preparation stimulated humoral responses but not cellular immune responses. These findings reveal that QB-90 is capable of stimulating both cellular and humoral immune responses when used as adjuvant.


pmid: 26851587
title: Identification and molecular characterization of border disease virus (BDV) from sheep in India
abstract: Pestiviruses isolated from sheep and goats in India thus far have been bovine viral diarrhoea virus 1 (BVDV-1) or BVDV-2. During routine genetic typing of pestiviruses in the years 2009-10, border disease virus (BDV) was detected in eight Indian sheep of a flock showing clinical signs of BD by real time RT-PCR. All the samples yielded positive virus isolates in cell culture but were found negative by a BVDV antigen ELISA. A representative BDV isolate was characterized at genetic and antigenic level. Phylogenetic analysis carried out in 5'-UTR, N(pro) and E2 regions of genome typed the Indian BDV isolate as BDV-3. A more detailed analysis in N(pro) and entire region coding structural proteins showed that the N(pro) (168), C (100 aa), E(rns) (227 aa), E1 (195 aa) and E2 (373 aa) proteins were of size characteristic for BDV reference strain X818. Antigenic differences were evident between the BDV-3 isolate and previously reported BDV-1, BDV-5 and BDV-7 strains. Although origin of BDV-3 in India is not clear, the results reflect probable introduction through trade in sheep between India and other countries or BDV-3 may be more widely distributed. Additionally, this study suggests that for diagnosis of BDV infection, the commercial BVDV Ag-ELISA should be used with caution. This is the first identification of BDV in sheep in India which highlights the need for continued pestivirus surveillance and assessing its impact on sheep and goat production.


pmid: 31944563
title: Serological relationship between a novel ovine pestivirus and classical swine fever virus
abstract: The genus Pestivirus comprises globally distributed members of the family Flaviviridae, which cause severe losses in livestock. The most common species of the genus are bovine viral diarrhoea virus type 1 (BVDV-1) and type 2 (BVDV-2), classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and border disease virus (BDV). Recently, a novel ovine pestivirus was repeatedly detected in aborted lamb foetuses on a farm located in the Brescia Province (Italy). Complete genome characterization of this isolate showed that it was highly divergent from known pestivirus species and that it was genetically closely related to CSFV. The aim of this study was to determine the serological relatedness between the identified novel pestivirus and BVDV, BDV and CSFV selected strains for which homologous serum was available, by antigenic characterization performed using cross-neutralization assays. The serological relatedness was expressed as the coefficient of antigenic similarity (R). Both field and specific antisera raised against the ovine pestivirus neutralized the CSFV reference strain Diepholz with titres significantly higher than those specific for the BDV and BVDV strains. Furthermore, the calculated R values clearly indicated that the novel ovine pestivirus is antigenically more related to CSFV than to ruminant pestiviruses, in agreement with the results of the genomic analysis. This would have severe consequences on CSFV serology in the event of a switch to porcine hosts with implications for CSFV surveillance and porcine health management.


pmid: 22178855
title: Effect of injectable trace minerals on the humoral immune response to multivalent vaccine administration in beef calves
abstract: The objective of this experiment was to investigate the effects of injectable trace minerals on humoral responses of calves receiving a viral vaccination. Beef steer calves (n = 99; average BW = 316 ± 4.2 kg), seronegative for bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1) and bovine viral diarrhea virus, genotypes 1 and 2 (BVDV-1 and BVDV-2), were sourced from 2 locations. All calves, except 15 non-vaccinated (sentinel) calves, received a single dose of a multivalent modified live vaccine (Titanium 5; AgriLabs, St. Joseph, MO) containing BHV-1, BVDV-1, BVDV-2, bovine parainfluenza virus type 3, and bovine respiratory syncytial virus. Among the vaccinated calves, 2 treatments were concurrently and randomly applied on the basis of initial serum Se status and BW, including 1) injectable trace mineral supplement (ITM; n = 42; 7 mL subcutaneous.; MultiMin, Fort Collins, CO) containing 15, 40, 10, and 5 mg/mL of Cu, Zn, Mn (all as disodium EDTA salts), and Se (as Na selenite) or 2) saline-injected control (Control; n = 42). As a measure of humoral immunity, neutralizing antibody titers were measured on d 0, 14, 30, 60, and 90, relative to vaccine administration. All calves were seronegative for each of the 3 viruses on d 0, and sentinel calves remained seronegative throughout the study. Serum mineral concentrations were evaluated on d 0 and 14. No differences (P ≥ 0.30) in serum Cu, Zn, Mn, or Se were observed between treatments on d 0. Control steers experienced a decrease (P < 0.001) in serum Zn and Se, and ITM steers had an increase (P = 0.007) in serum Cu on d 14 relative to initial d 0 values. On d 14, serum Zn and Se concentrations were greater (P < 0.01) in ITM compared with Control steers. Vaccinated calves experienced marked increases in neutralizing antibody titers by d 30 following vaccine administration. Calves receiving ITM at the time of vaccination experienced greater (P ≤ 0.003) neutralizing antibody titers to BHV-1 on d 14, 30, and 60 compared with Control. These results demonstrate that the injectable trace mineral formulation evaluated in this study, administered concurrently to viral vaccination, does not impair humoral immune responses in beef calves. Further, concurrent administration of ITM and BHV-1 vaccine may enhance the production of neutralizing antibodies to BHV-1 in previously naïve beef calves.


pmid: 10196256
title: Sequence and structural elements at the 3' terminus of bovine viral diarrhea virus genomic RNA: functional role during RNA replication
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a member of the genus Pestivirus in the family Flaviviridae, has a positive-stranded RNA genome consisting of a single open reading frame and untranslated regions (UTRs) at the 5' and 3' ends. Computer modeling suggested the 3' UTR comprised single-stranded regions as well as stem-loop structures-features that were suspected of being essentially implicated in the viral RNA replication pathway. Employing a subgenomic BVDV RNA (DI9c) that was shown to function as an autonomous RNA replicon (S.-E. Behrens, C. W. Grassmann, H. J. Thiel, G. Meyers, and N. Tautz, J. Virol. 72:2364-2372, 1998) the goal of this study was to determine the RNA secondary structure of the 3' UTR by experimental means and to investigate the significance of defined RNA motifs for the RNA replication pathway. Enzymatic and chemical structure probing revealed mainly the conserved terminal part (termed 3'C) of the DI9c 3' UTR containing distinctive RNA motifs, i.e., a stable stem-loop, SL I, near the RNA 3' terminus and a considerably less stable stem-loop, SL II, that forms the 5' portion of 3'C. SL I and SL II are separated by a long single-stranded intervening sequence, denoted SS. The 3'-terminal four C residues of the viral RNA were confirmed to be single stranded as well. Other intramolecular interactions, e.g., with upstream DI9c RNA sequences, were not detected under the experimental conditions used. Mutagenesis of the DI9c RNA demonstrated that the SL I and SS motifs do indeed play essential roles during RNA replication. Abolition of RNA stems, which ought to maintain the overall folding of SL I, as well as substitution of certain single-stranded nucleotides located in the SS region or SL I loop region, gave rise to DI9c derivatives unable to replicate. Conversely, SL I stems comprising compensatory base exchanges turned out to support replication, but mostly to a lower degree than the original structure. Surprisingly, replacement of a number of residues, although they were previously defined as constituents of a highly conserved stretch of sequence of the SS motif, had little effect on the replication ability of DI9c. In summary, these results indicate that RNA structure as well as sequence elements harbored within the 3'C region of the BVDV 3' UTR create a common cis-acting element of the replication process. The data further point at possible interaction sites of host and/or viral proteins and thus provide valuable information for future experiments intended to identify and characterize these factors.


pmid: 18512458
title: Microbiological and histopathological findings in cases of fatal bovine respiratory disease of feedlot cattle in Western Canada
abstract: The aim of this study was to describe the microbiologic agents and pathologic processes in fatal bovine respiratory disease (BRD) of feedlot cattle and to investigate associations between agents and pathologic processes. Ninety feedlot calves diagnosed at necropsy with BRD and 9 control calves without BRD were examined, using immunohistochemical (IHC) staining and histopathologic studies. Mannheimia haemolytica (MH) (peracute, acute, and subacute cases) and Mycoplasma bovis (MB) (subacute, bronchiolar, and chronic cases) were the most common agents identified in fatal BRD cases. Significant associations (P < 0.10) were detected between microbiologic agents and between agents and pathologic processes. When IHC staining was used, 25/26 (96%) of animals that were positive for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were also positive for MH; 12/15 (80 %) of animals that were positive for Histophilus somni (HS) were also positive for MB; and all of the animals that were positive for HS were negative for MH and BVDV. This quantitative pathological study demonstrates that several etiologic agents and pathologic processes are involved in fatal BRD of feedlot cattle.


pmid: 17803114
title: [Heifer breeding farms as a source for spreading the BVD virus?]
abstract: It is well known that, in Switzerland, communal grazing of livestock on alpine pastures plays an important role in the spread of BVD virus. Analogously, we might expect that the communal raising on farms specialising in raising heifers of animals born on different farms would also favour the spread of BVDV. This study investigated whether a persistently infected (PI) breeding heifer kept on this type of farm over a period of 26 months would put the other animals at risk of being infected. The PI-animal was in contact with 75 heifers (here defined as contact animals) on this farm. Thirty-two of the contact animals that were probably pregnant (animals at risk of giving birth to a PI-calf) were moved to 8 different breeding farms (here defined as farms at risk). On these 8 farms, 246 calves were found to be at risk of being infected with BVDV. We examined 78 calves and investigated whether the move of the pregnant animals from their original farm had permitted the virus to spread to these 8 other farms. The contact animals had a seroprevalence of 92% and the animals at risk a seroprevalence of 100%. Only one PI-animal was found on the farms at risk. This BVD infection, however, occurred independently of the PI-breeding animal. Seropositive calves were found only on 2 farms. This study did not provide any proof for a spread of BVDV with the PI-breeding animal as a source; likewise, no persistent infection was proven to exist on the farms at risk. This result is likely to be representative for the endemic situation of BVD in Switzerland. Thus, PI-animals present on heifer raising farms infect calves well before servicing. Hence, no new PI-animals are generated, and the infection becomes self-limiting. When we reconstructed the animal movements between the farms and determined the animals to be examined with the aid of the Swiss national animal traffic database (TVD) we found the data of 37% of the heifers to be incomplete and failed to successfully establish the whereabouts of 3 animals.


pmid: 16734113
title: The effect of chemical inactivation of bovine viral diarrhea virus with beta-propiolactone and binary ethyleneimine on plasma proteins and coagulation factors
abstract: In the present study chemical inactivation of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), as a substitute of hepatitis C virus was studied in human plasma pool. Beta-propiolactone (BPL), binary ethyleneimine (BEI) and chlorhexidine (CHX) were assessed. Treatment of virus-spiked human plasma with 0.025% BPL reduced virus infectivity titer to undetectable levels within 2 h, whereas BEI treatment (1 mM) showed a slower kinetic of inactivation, attaining a complete virus inactivation within 8 h of incubation. In contrast, CHX treatment at the adopted dose level (0.41mM) showed a limited virucidal capacity with a residual live virus titer after 24 h. BPL and BEI treatments reduced the recovery of labile plasma coagulation factors activity (V and VIII), while the activity of other coagulation factors (VII, IX and XI) was mildly decreased. Agarose gel electrophoresis of plasma proteins showed that albumin concentration is not affected, while gamma-globulin is slightly reduced by BPL and BEI treatment. Plasma fibrinogen level was modestly reduced by BPL treatment, while it remained unchanged by BEI treatment. This demonstrates the potential and safety use of BPL and BEI in BVDV inactivation in human plasma pool without affecting significantly the coagulant activity of important blood coagulation factors and the levels of plasma major protein fractions.


pmid: 16005739
title: Point mutations in an infectious bovine viral diarrhoea virus type 2 cDNA transcript that yields an attenuated and protective viral progeny
abstract: An infectious cDNA clone of the hypervirulent bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) strain 890 (isolate 256) was produced by a streamlined PCR procedure. As compared to the published sequence of strain 890, the nucleotide sequencing of cloned cDNA corresponding to isolate 256 revealed several mutations seven of which were attributed to the cloning procedure. The infectious transcript was transfected into permissive cells and led to viral multiplication (AvrII+ strain). In vitro, viral titres reached by the parental strain exceed those of the AvrII+ strain by more than one order of magnitude. The latter was clearly less virulent to young calves as indicated by clinical, haematological and virological parameters. Thirty-four days after inoculation with AvrII+ strain, calves were challenged with the virulent parental strain. The animals were protected as compared to unvaccinated controls. Therefore, our approach led to the production of an attenuated strain with potential use as a vaccine strain and will be useful for studies of virulence determinants in BVDV-2.


pmid: 12606077
title: Genetic diversity of ruminant pestiviruses from Spain
abstract: The genetic diversity of ruminant pestiviruses from Spain was investigated by sequencing analysis of the 5' non-coding region (5'NCR) from 10 ovine and 41 bovine samples collected along 4 years (1999-2002) from different farms. The 5'NCR amplicons generated by a one-tube RT-PCR using primers 324/326 were sequenced and phylogenetically analyzed. When compared with strains from GenBank database, Spanish viruses clustered into three genotypes: BVDV 1, BDV and CSFV. No BVDV 2 strains were identified. The 41 bovine samples were all BVDV 1 genotype, but they were further subdivided into subgroups 1b (35) and 1e (6). There was no apparent association between the genotype and clinical symptoms, or the geographic area of origin. However, subgroup 1e has been recently described for isolates from France and, interestingly, subgroup 1e viruses were collected from areas close to the French border. Nine of the ten ovine samples formed a tight cluster within BDV type but clearly differed from BDV subgroups A and B sustaining the need to define a new subgroup as BDV-C in which these ovine strains would be included. Finally, although further studies are needed, the grouping of an ovine sample with CSFV strains would be the first description of a CSFV genotype for ovine pestiviruses.


pmid: 12438577
title: Mechanism of de novo initiation by the hepatitis C virus RNA-dependent RNA polymerase: role of divalent metals
abstract: We functionally analyzed the role of metal ions in RNA-dependent RNA synthesis by three recombinant RNA-dependent RNA polymerases (RdRps) from GB virus-B (GBV), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and hepatitis C virus (HCV), with emphasis on the HCV RdRp. Using templates capable of both de novo initiation and primer extension and RdRps purified in the absence of metal, we found that only reactions with exogenously provided Mg(2+) and Mn(2+) gave rise to significant amounts of synthesis. Mg(2+) and Mn(2+) affected the mode of RNA synthesis by the three RdRps. Both metals supported primer-dependent and de novo-initiated RNA by the GBV RdRp, while Mn(2+) significantly increased the amount of de novo-initiated products by the HCV and BVDV RdRps. For the HCV RdRp, Mn(2+) reduced the K(m) for the initiation nucleotide, a GTP, from 103 to 3 micro M. However, it increased de novo initiation even at GTP concentrations that are comparable to physiological levels. We hypothesize that a change in RdRp structure occurs upon GTP binding to prevent primer extension. Analysis of deleted proteins revealed that the C terminus of the HCV RdRp plays a role in Mn(2+)-induced de novo initiation and can contribute to the suppression of primer extension. Spectroscopy examining the intrinsic fluorescence of tyrosine and tryptophan residues in the HCV RdRp produced results consistent with the protein undergoing a conformational change in the presence of metal. These results document the fact that metal can affect de novo initiation or primer extension by flaviviral RdRps.


pmid: 12127314
title: Effect of gamma irradiation on human cortical bone transplants contaminated with enveloped and non-enveloped viruses
abstract: In the production of bone grafts intended for transplantation, basic safety measures to avoid the transmission of pathogens are selection and serological screening of donors for markers of virus infections. As an additional safety tool we investigated the effect of gamma irradiation on the sterility of human bone diaphysis transplants and evaluated its impact on the virus safety of transplants. Model viruses were included in the study to determine the dose necessary to achieve a reduction factor for the infectivity titres of at least 4 log(10) at a temperature of -30+/-5 degrees C. The following viruses were used: human immunodeficiency virus type 2 (HIV-2), hepatitis A virus (HAV), and poliovirus (PV-1), and the following model viruses: pseudorabies virus (PRV) as a model for human herpesviruses, bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) for HCV, and bovine parvovirus (BPV) for parvovirus B19. A first approach was to determine the D(10) values (kGy) for the different viruses (virus inactivation kinetics: BPV 7.3; PV-1 7.1; HIV-2 7.1; HAV 5.3; PRV 5.3; BVDV <3.0 kGy). Based on these results, inactivation of these viruses was studied in experimentally contaminated human bone transplants (femoral diaphyses). For BPV, the most resistant one of the viruses studied, a dose of approximately 34 kGy was necessary to achieve a reduction of infectivity titres of 4 log(10). We therefore recommend a dose of 34 kGy for the sterilisation of frozen bone transplants.


pmid: 1965632
title: Prospective serology and analysis in diagnosis of dairy cow abortion
abstract: A prospective serologic investigation was undertaken on 3 California dairies (herds 1, 3, and 4, as previously designated in a report on abortion surveillance) to determine if fetal loss was associated with infectious disease agents in cows. The diagnostic problem in these herds was typical of many dairies in that abortions were not discovered for several months and aborted fetuses were seldom recovered. Blood from approximately 100 pregnant cows in each herd was sampled at monthly intervals, beginning when the cows were palpated at approximately 40 days gestation. Sera were tested for antibodies to infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and to the Leptospira serovars pomona, hardjo, grippotyphosa, icterohemorrhagiae, canicola, and szwajizak. Logn antibody titers were examined for an association with fetal loss, using multivariate methods of logistic regression and survival analysis. Of the 325 cows followed, 37 aborted, and no fetuses were recovered. Statistical analyses indicated that significant fetal loss was associated with high titers to L. hardjo and with low titers to L. szwajizak (herds 1 and 4) and BVDV (herd 1). Results for herd 3 revealed a connection between abortion and L. icterohemorrhagiae (P = 0.036) and L. canicola (P = 0.050) and possible vaccinal protection against abortion caused by L. grippotyphosa (P = 0.027 and 0.015). For herd 4, there was a marginally significant tendency for the first vaccination of the gestation against leptospirosis to have protected against fetal death (P = 0.077). Advantages of the diagnostic design were that it permitted comparison of titers of aborted cows with those of nonaborted cows and it considered vaccination-induced titers in analyses.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


pmid: 28470362
title: Pathogen Exposure in Cattle at the Livestock-Wildlife Interface
abstract: Land use is an important driver of variation in human infectious disease risk, but less is known about how land use affects disease risk in livestock. To understand how land use is associated with disease risk in livestock, we examined patterns of pathogen exposure in cattle across two livestock ranching systems in rural Kenya: private ranches with low- to medium-intensity cattle production and high wildlife densities, and group ranches with high-intensity cattle production and low wildlife densities. We surveyed cattle from six ranches for three pathogens: Brucella spp., bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and Leptospira serovar Hardjo. We found that exposure risk for Leptospira was higher on private ranches than on group ranches, but there was no difference in exposure by ranch type for Brucella or BVDV. We hypothesize that variation in livestock and wildlife contact patterns between ranch types may be driving the pattern observed for Leptospira exposure and that the different relationships we found between exposure risk and ranch type by pathogen may be explained by differences in transmission mode. Overall, our results suggest that wildlife-livestock contact patterns may play a key role in shaping pathogen transmission to livestock and that the magnitude of such effects likely depend on characteristics of the pathogen in question.


pmid: 21689959
title: Fetal protection against bovine viral diarrhoea type 1 virus infection after one administration of a live-attenuated vaccine
abstract: A modified-live vaccine has been shown previously to prevent fetal infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV)-2 and, to some extent BVDV-1, when used in association with an inactivated vaccine in a two-step vaccination protocol. In this challenge study, the modified-live vaccine used alone was able to protect 13 heifers between 49 and 96 days of gestation at challenge from leucopenia and virus replication and, for a 4-month period, to prevent fetal infection. The efficacy of the BVDV-1f 22146/Han81 challenge was demonstrated by virus isolation from the fetuses of all nine non-vaccinated, control heifers. However, the small number of heifers tested meant that the vaccination failure rate could be as high as 10% in the field.


pmid: 23327211
title: The diagnosis and prevalence of persistent infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus in South African feedlot cattle
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection is an important viral infection affecting the cattle industry today. The prevalence of this infection in South African feedlots is unknown. Ear notch biopsies were collected from chronic poor doers and animals that appeared unthrifty upon entering feedlots, as well as animals entering the hospital pen with respiratory disease for the first time. A total of 1690 samples were collected: 1074 from the former category and 616 from the latter. A routine immunohistochemistry staining protocol showed that 49 animals tested positive, of which 43 (4%) came from the feedlot entry group and six (1%) from the hospitalised group. The prevalence of persistently infected cattle from this selected, nonrandom sample entering six large South African feedlots was found to be 2.9%, which is higher than the international rule of thumb that 0.5% of all cattle entering feedlots are persistently infected. There was no clear correlation between persistent infection and respiratory disease. Serum samples were also collected when possible and 10 positive cases were found. Results from enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays for antigen and antibody performed on these sera correlated well with those from the immunohistochemistry staining method in six cases, but in four cases the animals tested falsely positive owing to nonspecific staining. Immunohistochemistry staining on ear notch biopsies is thus a reliable diagnostic method to identify persistently infected animals with BVDV, but the pathologist should be aware of nonspecific positive staining.


pmid: 20850882
title: Spatial modelling of the between-herd infection dynamics of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in dairy herds in Denmark
abstract: According to the current literature BVDV-infected neighbours probably impose a high risk of infection of susceptible cattle herds. In the present study, the objective was to evaluate the risk of a dairy herd changing infection status (from not having persistently infected (PI) animals to having PI-animals) in relation to location and infection status of neighbouring cattle herds in Denmark. In total, 7921 dairy herds were included in the analysis of spatial and non-spatial risk factors. The spatial risk factors were derived based on the cattle herds in the neighbourhood (N=36,639 cattle herds). The neighbourhood was defined as the first order neighbouring cattle herds using a Delauney triangularization. In total, 13.3% of the dairy herds changed herd status to PI-herds during the study period that lasted from January 1, 1995, to June 30, 1996. The risk of becoming a PI-herd was negatively associated with the mean distance to the neighbouring herds (OR=0.7 for an increase of 1 km). Presence of PI-herds in the neighbourhood increased the risk of becoming a PI-herd (OR=1.37, 1.40, 1.70 for 1, 2, ≥3 PI-herds in the neighbourhood). Increasing herd size increased the risk of becoming a PI-herd (OR=3.9 for an increase of 10 cows). Regional differences were seen.


pmid: 1503001
title: Toxoplasmosis and border disease in 54 Swedish sheep flocks. Seroprevalence and incidence during one gestation period
abstract: Serum samples from 704 animals from 54 Swedish sheep flocks were analysed by ELISA twice during 1 breeding season for antibodies to Toxoplasma gondii and border disease virus (BDV). An ELISA, originally developed for the detection of antibodies to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in cattle, was assessed on sheep sera and the results were compared with those obtained in a virus neutralization test. The correlation between the 2 assays proved good. Before breeding, 132 (19%) sheep in 42 flocks had antibodies to T. gondii and 7 (1%) sheep in 5 flocks were seropositive to BDV. During the observation period 4 sheep seroconverted to T. gondii and 13 to BDV, giving an incidence rate of 0.7% and 1.9% respectively. No clinical signs due to the infections were observed. In 5 flocks the frequency of barrenness, abortion or stillbirths exceeded 5%, 5% and 8%, respectively, but there was no evidence that this was attributable to the agents studied. The proportion of BDV-positive flocks was significantly higher among flocks that had been in contact with cattle than among those that had not.


pmid: 9210937
title: Surveillance of cattle herds for bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV)-infection using data on reproduction and calf mortality
abstract: The effect of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV)-infection on pregnancy rate, on stillbirths and mortality of neonatal calves and the size of newborn calves was evaluated in 8 herds in which persistently infected (PI)-animals had been identified. Data from 9 herds without PI-animals were used as controls. At the time of conception of the oldest PI-animal a significant drop in pregnancy rate to about half the herd average was found. About 6 months later a 3-fold rise in calf mortality was seen. This pattern was found in 4 of the herds. In the remaining 4 herds the pattern was less clear, probably reflecting different immune states of the herds. Rough estimation of the size of newborn calves showed that PI-animals were significantly smaller than normal animals. Monitoring of herds for the above-mentioned parameters may be a means of pointing out herds with PI-animals. Most of the data necessary for such surveillance schemes are already available and may readily be used.


pmid: 12767995
title: Specific inhibition of bovine viral diarrhea virus replicase
abstract: Compound-1453 was identified and characterized as a specific inhibitor of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). The concentration of compound-1453 which results in 50% protection from virus-induced cytopathic effect is approximately 2.2 microM, with a therapeutic index of 60, and it is not active against a panel of RNA and DNA viruses. A time-of-addition experiment suggested that compound-1453 targets a stage of the viral life cycle after viral entry. To determine the target of compound-1453, resistant virus was generated. Resistant variants grew efficiently in the presence or absence of 33 micro M compound-1453 and exhibited replication efficiency in the presence of compound-1453 approximately 1,000-fold higher than that of the wild-type (wt) virus. Functional mapping and sequence analysis of resistant cDNAs revealed a single amino acid substitution (Glu to Gly) at residue 291 in the NS5B polymerase in all eight independently generated cDNA clones. Recombinant virus containing this single mutation retained the resistance phenotype and a replication efficiency similar to that of the original isolated resistant virus. Since compound-1453 did not inhibit BVDV polymerase activity in vitro (50% inhibitory concentration > 300 microM), we developed a membrane-based assay that consisted of a BVDV RNA replicase complex isolated from virus-infected cells. Compound-1453 inhibited the activity of the wt, but not the drug-resistant, replicase in the membrane assay at concentrations similar to those observed in the viral infection assay. This work presents a novel inhibitor of a viral RNA-dependent RNA replicase.


pmid: 26353892
title: Global transcriptomic profiling of bovine endometrial immune response in vitro. II. Effect of bovine viral diarrhea virus on the endometrial response to lipopolysaccharide
abstract: Infection with noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (ncpBVDV) is associated with uterine disease and infertility. This study investigated the influence of ncpBVDV on immune functions of the bovine endometrium by testing the response to bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Primary cultures of mixed epithelial and stromal cells were divided into four treatment groups (control [CONT], BVDV, CONT+LPS, and BVDV+LPS) and infected with ncpBVDV for 4 days followed by treatment with LPS for 6 h. Whole-transcriptomic gene expression was measured followed by Ingenuity Pathway Analysis. Differential expression of 184 genes was found between CONT and BVDV treatments, showing interplay between induction and inhibition of responses. Up-regulation of TLR3, complement, and chemotactic and TRIM factors by ncpBVDV all suggested an ongoing immune response to viral infection. Down-regulation of inflammatory cytokines, chemokines, CXCR4, and serine proteinase inhibitors suggested mechanisms by which ncpBVDV may simultaneously counter the host response. Comparison between BVDV+LPS and CONT+LPS treatments showed 218 differentially expressed genes. Canonical pathway analysis identified the key importance of interferon signaling. Top down-regulated genes were RSAD2, ISG15, BST2, MX2, OAS1, USP18, IFIT3, IFI27, SAMD9, IFIT1, and DDX58, whereas TRIM56, C3, and OLFML1 were most up-regulated. Many of these genes are also regulated by IFNT during maternal recognition of pregnancy. Many innate immune genes that typically respond to LPS were inhibited by ncpBVDV, including those involved in pathogen recognition, inflammation, interferon response, chemokines, tissue remodeling, cell migration, and cell death/survival. Infection with ncpBVDV can thus compromise immune function and pregnancy recognition, thereby potentially predisposing infected cows to postpartum bacterial endometritis and reduced fertility.


pmid: 25457366
title: Pestiviral E(rns) blocks TLR-3-dependent IFN synthesis by LL37 complexed RNA
abstract: The ribonuclease activity of the soluble glycoprotein E(rns) of pestiviruses represents a unique mechanism to circumvent the host's innate immune system by blocking interferon type-I synthesis in response to extracellularly added single- (ss) and double-stranded (ds) RNA. However, the reason why pestiviruses encode a ribonuclease in addition to the abundant serum RNases remained elusive. Here, we show that the 5' UTR and NS5B regions of various strains of the RNA genome of the pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) are resistant to serum RNases and are potent TLR-3 agonists. Inhibitory activity of E(rns) was restricted to cleavable RNA products, and did not extend to the synthetic TLR-7/8 agonist R-848. RNA complexed with the antimicrobial peptide LL37 was protected from degradation by E(rns)in vitro but was fully inhibited by E(rns) in its ability to induce IFN in cell cultures, suggesting that the viral protein is mainly active in cleaving RNA in an intracellular compartment. We propose that secreted E(rns) represents a potent IFN antagonist, which degrades viral RNA that is resistant to the ubiquitous host RNases in the extracellular space. Thus, the viral RNase prevents its own pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP) to inadvertently activate the IFN response that might break innate immunotolerance required for persistent pestivirus infections.


pmid: 24135548
title: Effects of in utero pestivirus infection on bovine fetal bone geometry, biomechanical properties and composition
abstract: Transplacental viral infection of the fetus can result in abnormal trabecular and cortical bone modeling in long bones through impaired bone resorption and formation. Although such infections are frequently associated with neonatal fractures in humans and animals, their effect on the biomechanical properties of the developing skeleton remain poorly understood. The goal of this study was to determine the effects of transplacental bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection on the biomechanical properties of fetal femora. Pregnant heifers were inoculated intranasally with non-cytopathic BVDV or media alone on day 75 of gestation to produce persistently infected (PI) and control fetuses, respectively, which were then removed on days 192 and 245 of gestation. Histomorphometry, compositional analysis and 'four-point bending until failure' were performed on fetal femora. Altered cortical geometry largely accounted for differences in calculated elastic modulus (PI vs. control, and day 192 vs. day 245) and ultimate stress (day 192 vs. day 245). Fetal infection with BVDV did not significantly impair inherent biomechanical properties of bone but rather resulted in decreased periosteal apposition rates, manifested as smaller femoral mid-diaphyseal diameters. There were no differences between PI and control fetuses in cortical thickness ratio, ash density or calcium/phosphorous content; however, cortical thickness ratio decreased with fetal age. Thus even when cortical thickness ratios are similar, differences in mid-diaphyseal diameter affect the error associated with the calculation of stress and strain by classical beam theory equations.


pmid: 27269791
title: Impact of oral meloxicam and long-distance transport on cell-mediated and humoral immune responses in feedlot steers receiving modified live BVDV booster vaccination on arrival
abstract: The objective of this study was to investigate the impact of oral meloxicam (MEL) and long-distance transportation on cell-mediated immunity (CMI) in preconditioned steers receiving a booster vaccination on arrival. We hypothesized that steers treated with MEL at 1mg/kg body weight, 6h before night-time transport, would be less immunocompromised on arrival (day 0) and after 7days, and that CMI following vaccination with a modified live bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) recall antigen would be increased. Brahman crossbreed steers, 13-17 months of age (n=87), were randomly assigned to one of four treatment groups: MEL, transported (MTR) (n=22), MEL, non-transported (MNT) (n=22), lactose placebo, transported (CTR) (n=21), and lactose placebo, non-transported (CNT) (n=22). MTR and CTR steers were transported for approximately 16h non-stop on a truck from Mississippi to Iowa (approximately 1300km), whereas steers in the MNT and CNT groups remained in Mississippi as non-transported controls. Body weight was measured and jugular blood was collected at -1, 0, and 7days from all steers at the same time, regardless of location. Multi-parameter flow cytometry (MP-FCM) was used to identify T-cell subsets and detect the expression of three activation markers (CD25 [interleukin (IL)-2 receptor], intracellular interferon-gamma [IFNγ], and IL-4) after in vitro stimulation with BVDV recall antigen. Plasma cortisol concentration was measured on day -1, 0, and 7 as a marker of transport-associated stress. Serum antibody titer to BVDV was assessed on day -1 and day 7 post-booster vaccination. Whole-blood samples were analyzed using MP-FCM on days 0 and 7. Results were log transformed and analyzed using repeated measures of analysis of variance. Compared with non-transported controls, transport led to an increase in BVDV-induced expression of CD25, IFNγ, and IL-4 in CD4(+), CD8(+), and γδ(+) T-cell subsets (P<0.05). MEL treatment mitigated the transportation-associated increase in CD25 expression by peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), CD4(+), and γδ(+) T cells. CMI outputs for the MTR group were less than those of the CTR group (P<0.05); however, the MTR and NT groups did not differ (P>0.10). A treatment*transport interaction was noted for the increase in IL-4 expression by CD8(+) T cells after transport, with a significant difference between the CTR and MTR groups at day 7. In conclusion, the use of oral MEL prior to transport appears to have inhibitory or homeostatic effects, but further research is needed to validate the effect of MEL treatment on specific T-cell subsets in transported cattle.


pmid: 15013980
title: Innate immune responses of calves during transient infection with a noncytopathic strain of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: In this study, six immunocompetent calves were experimentally infected with a noncytopathic strain of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and the effects of the viral infection on parameters of the innate immune response of the host were analyzed. Clinical and virological data were compared with the temporal activation of the alpha/beta interferon-regulated Mx gene in white blood cells (WBC) and skin as well as the upregulation of the acute-phase serum proteins haptoglobin (Hp) and serum amyloid A (SAA). The viral strain used did provoke transient health impairment, namely, fever and leukopenia that were associated with viremia, viral shedding with nasal secretions, and antiviral seroconversion. Complete recovery was observed within 3 weeks. Elevated levels of SAA and Hp were apparent from days 4 to 13 and 8 to 11, respectively. In WBC, the levels of Mx mRNA and Mx protein were elevated from days 2 to 15. In the context of this study with BVDV, the level of Mx protein expression in WBC provided the most telling diagnostic window to monitor the host's ongoing innate immune response.


pmid: 26399846
title: Virus-induced congenital malformations in cattle
abstract: Diagnosing the cause of bovine congenital malformations (BCMs) is challenging for bovine veterinary practitioners and laboratory diagnosticians as many known as well as a large number of not-yet reported syndromes exist. Foetal infection with certain viruses, including bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV), Schmallenberg virus (SBV), blue tongue virus (BTV), Akabane virus (AKAV), or Aino virus (AV), is associated with a range of congenital malformations. It is tempting for veterinary practitioners to diagnose such infections based only on the morphology of the defective offspring. However, diagnosing a virus as a cause of BCMs usually requires laboratory examination and even in such cases, interpretation of findings may be challenging due to lack of experience regarding genetic defects causing similar lesions, even in cases where virus or congenital antibodies are present. Intrauterine infection of the foetus during the susceptible periods of development, i.e. around gestation days 60-180, by BVDV, SBV, BTV, AKAV and AV may cause malformations in the central nervous system, especially in the brain. Brain lesions typically consist of hydranencephaly, porencephaly, hydrocephalus and cerebellar hypoplasia, which in case of SBV, AKAV and AV infections may be associated by malformation of the axial and appendicular skeleton, e.g. arthrogryposis multiplex congenita. Doming of the calvarium is present in some, but not all, cases. None of these lesions are pathognomonic so diagnosing a viral cause based on gross lesions is uncertain. Several genetic defects share morphology with virus induced congenital malformations, so expert advice should be sought when BCMs are encountered.


pmid: 23972495
title: Presence of viral and bacterial organisms in milk and their association with somatic cell counts
abstract: About 20 to 35% of milk samples from cows with intramammary infection or high somatic cell count (SCC) are negative on bacteriological culture analysis. However, little is known about SCC in milk of cows infected with viruses. In the first part of our study, we developed a real-time PCR assay for detection of bovine herpesvirus (BHV) 1, BHV2, and BHV4, and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in composite quarter milk samples. A total of 1,479 lactating cows of 1,964 cows in the dairy herd were initially selected because these cows had complete SCC data for at least 3 consecutive test results, of which 139 lactating cows from different lactation age groups were selected randomly and studied extensively. Composite quarter milk samples were collected on 3 alternate days and examined for viruses, SCC, and bacteriological analysis. In total, 10, 28, and 0.7% of the composite quarter milk samples from cows were positive for BHV1, BHV2, and BHV4, respectively; BVDV was not detected in composite quarter milk samples. Bovine herpesvirus was not associated with a particular bacterial species. Our study results indicate that cows positive for BHV in composite quarter milk samples alone are less likely to have elevated SCC compared with cows with bacterial intramammary infection; BHV1, BHV2, and BHV4 are probably not major udder pathogens.


pmid: 11243363
title: Application of single-strand conformation polymorphism to the study of bovine viral diarrhea virus isolates
abstract: Single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products is a genetic screening technique for rapid detection of nucleotide substitutions in PCR-amplified genomic DNA or cDNA. It is based on the observation that partially formamide-denatured double-stranded DNA migrates as 2 single-stranded DNA molecules when electrophoresed in nondenaturing polyacrylamide gels. The mobility depends on the 3-dimensional conformation of the strand under the conditions used. It is possible to discriminate between DNA strands differing in only 1 nucleotide. The method was applied to the analysis of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) isolates. Reference and Argentinian strains were assessed for variations in their 5' untranslated region (5'-UTR). The PCR products of the 5'-UTR ends were formamide denatured and compared by SSCP analysis in nondenaturing 15% polyacrylamide and 15% polyacrilamide-5% glycerol gels. The reference strains SD-1, Singer, and Oregon C24V had differences in electrophoretic patterns. Despite the high conservation among the 5'-UTR of pestiviruses, the method allowed discrimination among all 9 Argentinian isolates. The 5'-UTR of a fetal kidney-derived isolate (1R93) was PCR amplified and cloned in a plasmid vector; the SSCP analysis of 30 PCR products obtained by direct amplification over randomly selected clones produced 5 different banding patterns, indicating the existence of viral quasispecies. The results show that SSCP may be used to identify and differentiate among BVDV isolates.


pmid: 10580045
title: Expression of bovine viral diarrhoea virus glycoprotein E2 by bovine herpesvirus-1 from a synthetic ORF and incorporation of E2 into recombinant virions
abstract: Expression cassettes containing the codons for the pestivirus E (rns) signal peptide (Sig) followed by a chemically synthesized ORF that encoded the bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) strain C86 glycoprotein E2, a class I membrane glycoprotein, were constructed with and without a chimeric intron sequence immediately upstream of the translation start codon, and incorporated into the genome of bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1). The resulting recombinants, BHV- 1/SigE2(syn) and BHV-1/SigE2(syn)-intron, expressed comparable quantities of glycoprotein E2, and Northern blot hybridizations indicated that the presence of the intron did not increase significantly the steady-state levels of transcripts encompassing the SigE2(syn) ORF. In BHV-1/SigE2(syn)- infected cells, the 54 kDa E2 glycoprotein formed a dimer with an apparent molecular mass of 94 kDa, which was further modified to a 101 kDa form found in the envelope of recombinant virus particles. Penetration kinetics and single-step growth curves indicated that the incorporation of the BVDV E2 glycoprotein in the BHV-1 envelope, which apparently did not require BHV-1-specific signals, interfered with entry into target cells and egress of progeny virions. These results demonstrate that a pestivirus glycoprotein can be expressed efficiently by BHV-1 and incorporated into the viral envelope. BHV-1 thus represents a promising tool for the development of efficacious live and inactivated BHV-1-based vector vaccines.


pmid: 10403696
title: Genetic analysis of pestiviruses at the 3' end of the genome
abstract: Specific PCR primers were selected for each pestivirus genotype which flanked the 3'-part of the NS5B gene and more than three quarters of the 3'-UTR. PCR products were sequenced in both directions using an automatic sequencing device and analyzed by computer package program DNASTAR. A comparative analysis of the 3' untranslated region (3'-UTR) of 82 viruses, representing the four genotypes of the Pestivirus genus, provided a similar phylogenetic grouping as other genomic regions. Intertypic recombination was not observed, but Border disease virus (BDV) and Bovine viral diarrhoea virus type I (BVDV I) showed great intragenotypic variability. In most pestiviruses the stop codon is TGA, but BDV isolates were found to have either a TAG or a TAA stop codon. Various deletions and insertions were observed in the 3'-UTR region. Viruses of the BVDV lb group contained a characteristic deletion of 41 nucleotides. Compared to the 5'-UTR, the 3'-UTR was less conserved. The first 50-60 nucleotides were particularly variable, whilst the most conserved part was found at the 3' end of the studied region. All 82 viruses contained AT-rich stretches, the positions and sizes of which differed between the genotypes.


pmid: 8953524
title: Evaluation of nucleic acid amplification methods for the detection of hog cholera virus
abstract: A blind panel was tested in a diagnostic evaluation of a reverse transcription (RT) polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method for detecting hog cholera virus (HCV) from pig tissues. The capability of the RT-PCR test to discriminate between HCV and related pestiviruses, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and those viruses causing similar diseases in swine, including African swine fever virus (ASFV) and pseudorabies virus (PRV), was also considered. Nucleic acid extraction involved either kit-based or conventional phenol:chloroform:isoamyl alcohol methods. A single-round PCR assay, using primers that hybridize to the conserved p120 nonstructural gene region, was 82.5% sensitive (n = 17) and 100% specific (n = 18) in the detection of the presence of HCV RNA. However, the sensitivity was increased to 100% following a second PCR test. In all, 4 HCV, 7 BVDV, 2 ASFV, and 1 PRV isolates were studied. Novel nucleic acid sequences were generated for 9 HCV strains. Analysis of a portion of the p120 region using these methods was suitable for HCV isolate characterization.


pmid: 23881675
title: An evaluation of circulating bovine viral diarrhea virus type 2 maternal antibody level and response to vaccination in Angus calves
abstract: Vaccination against viruses has been shown to help prevent bovine respiratory disease in cattle. However, both passively acquired maternal antibody concentration and calf age have been shown to impact the ability of the immune system of a calf to respond to vaccination. The objectives of this study were to identify and evaluate environmental and management factors that affect 1) passively acquired bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type 2 antibody level, 2) decay rate of passively acquired BVDV type 2 antibody level, and 3) responses to BVDV type 2 vaccinations. A 2-shot modified live vaccine was administered to 1,004 Angus calves that were weaned at either the initial vaccination (n = 508) or the booster vaccination (n = 496). Calves weaned at the initial vaccination averaged 139 d whereas calves weaned at booster vaccination averaged 128 d of age. Bovine viral diarrhea virus type 2 antibodies were measured in 3 approximately 21-d intervals, serially collected serum samples to quantify antibody levels at initiation and end of vaccination protocol in addition to responses to initial, booster, and overall vaccination protocol. Amount of passively transferred antibody in the calf increased as dam age increased from 2 to 6 yr (P < 0.05) with no differences after dams reached 6 yr (P > 0.05). Calf age nested within birth year-season and dam age affected both initial and final antibody level, initial response, booster response, and overall antibody response to vaccination. The level of circulating, passively acquired maternal antibodies present at the time of vaccination had a significant (P < 0.05) negative effect on antibody responses to vaccination (initial response, booster response, and overall response). Calves that were weaned at the time of initial vaccination had significantly (P < 0.05) greater final antibody level, initial response, and overall response to vaccination than animals weaned at booster vaccination. In order for a calf to mount an overall antibody response to vaccination, maternal antibodies in circulation need to be less than 3.12 titers. However, the age at which a calf reached this antibody threshold was dependent on dam age. This information will help cattle managers and consultants design vaccination protocols to successfully mount an antibody response to vaccination.


pmid: 19286815
title: Effects of on-arrival versus delayed clostridial or modified live respiratory vaccinations on health, performance, bovine viral diarrhea virus type I titers, and stress and immune measures of newly received beef calves
abstract: Stress, commonly associated with weaning, marketing, and shipment of feeder cattle, can compromise immune function, and vaccine administration during immunosuppression may reduce vaccine efficacy and calf growth. Four treatments were compared in a 2 x 2 factorial arrangement to evaluate the effect of on-arrival (d 0) vs. delayed (d 14) administration of clostridial (CLOS) and respiratory (RESP) vaccines on health, performance, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) antibody titers, and physiological immune measurements of high-risk, newly received calves. Crossbred bull and steer calves (n = 263) were weighed (239 +/- 1.2 kg), stratified by sex, and randomly assigned to vaccination treatment: 1) arrival CLOS, arrival RESP (ACAR); 2) arrival CLOS, delayed RESP (ACDR); 3) delayed CLOS, arrival RESP (DCAR); and 4) delayed CLOS, delayed RESP (DCDR). Body weight and blood samples were collected on d 0, 14, 28, 42, and 56. Average daily gain did not differ (P > or = 0.34), averaging 0.98, 0.93, 0.95, and 0.91 kg/d for ACAR, ACDR, DCAR, and DCDR, respectively, for the entire 56-d trial. Vaccination timing did not affect morbidity (P > or = 0.23); however, there tended to be a CLOS timing effect (P = 0.07) and RESP timing effect (P = 0.09) on days to initial bovine respiratory disease (BRD) treatment. Average days to initial BRD treatment were less for ACAR (6 +/- 0.8 d) compared with DCDR (8 +/- 0.8 d; P = 0.01). Greater white blood cell counts were observed for DCDR than ACDR (P = 0.01), with ACAR and DCAR being intermediate. Serum cortisol concentrations were greater on d 0 than d 14 (P < 0.01) or d 28 (P = 0.01) but no treatment x day interaction (P = 0.21) was observed. Timing of RESP administration affected (P = 0.001) serum BVDV type I titers, with greater (P < 0.01) levels in calves receiving RESP vaccine on arrival. Delaying CLOS or RESP vaccination did not affect BW gain or morbidity in high risk, newly received stocker calves. Calves administered RESP vaccine on d 0 developed antibody titers to BVDV type I earlier than delayed RESP treatments. Total white blood cell count was greatest when RESP and CLOS vaccination were delayed (DCDR).


pmid: 14677865
title: The role of acidogenic diets and beta-hydroxybutyate on lymphocyte proliferation and serum antibody response against bovine respiratory viruses in Holstein steers
abstract: Acidogenic diets were evaluated for their effects on lymphocyte proliferation in response to Staphylococcus aureus exotoxin B (SEB), and specific lymphocyte proliferation and serum-neutralizing antibody titers to four bovine respiratory viruses in vitro. Four Holstein steer calves, with an average weight of 213 +/- 42 kg, were fed a basal (control) diet consisting of 49% forage and 51% concentrate (DM basis), with 15% CP (on a DM basis). Three additional treatment diets were used: 1) the basal diet supplemented with 700 mL/d of butylene glycol (BG) to induce ketoacidosis by increasing blood beta-hydroxybutyate (BHBA); 2) the basal diet supplemented with 1.2 +/- 0.1 kg/d of anionic salts (AS; Soychor 16.7, West Central Soy, Ralston, IA) to induce a metabolic acidosis; and 3) the basal diet with all forage replaced by finely ground corn and soybean meal blended to provide 15% CP (HG), to induce lactic acidosis. The calves were fed each diet for 21 d in a 4 x 4 Latin square design. Blood samples were collected on d 18, 19, and 20 of each 21-d period and analyzed for pH; concentrations of BHBA; in vitro lymphocyte proliferation to SEB, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), parainfluenza-3 (PI-3), and bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1); and titers of serum-neutralizing antibodies against the four viruses. Following treatment, the average pH of the serum samples was 7.38 for calves fed the control diet, 7.37 for the BG treatment, and 7.36 for the HG treatment, and was decreased (P < 0.05) to 7.33 for the AS treatment. All acidogenic diets decreased lymphocyte response to SEB (P < 0.05). The lymphocyte proliferative response, however, of each virus showed a different pattern of interaction with the three acidogenic diets tested. The AS diet was associated with increased lymphocyte proliferative response to BVDV and BRSV (P < 0.01) and increased serum neutralization titers to BHV-1 (P < 0.05). In calves fed the BHBA-inducing diet (BG), an increase in lymphocyte proliferation to BRSV was observed (P < 0.05). A similar relationship to blood BHBA concentration was not observed with the lymphocyte proliferation to BVDV, PI-3, or BHV-1. Titers of serum-neutralizing antibody against PI3 (P < 0.05) and BHV-1 (P < 0.01) were negatively correlated with blood pH, and titers of serum neutralizing antibodies to BHV-1 were negatively correlated to elevated circulating concentrations of BHBA (P < 0.05).


pmid: 2838957
title: Molecular cloning and nucleotide sequence of the pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The RNA genome of the cytopathic NADL isolate of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has been molecularly cloned and the nucleotide sequence determined. The cloned sequence was 12,573 nucleotides in length, corresponding to a molecular weight of 4.3 X 10(6), having a base composition of 32.2% A, 25.7% G, 22.1% U, and 20.0% C. However, the sequences at the 5' and 3' termini of the RNA have not been unequivocally established. A single major open reading frame extending the length of the molecule was found in the viral-sense (positive polarity) sequence. This open reading frame was capable of encoding 3988 amino acids, representing 449 kDa of protein.


pmid: 35525066
title: Output-based assessment of herd-level freedom from infection in endemic situations: Application of a Bayesian Hidden Markov model
abstract: Countries have implemented control programmes (CPs) for cattle diseases such as bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) that are tailored to each country-specific situation. Practical methods are needed to assess the output of these CPs in terms of the confidence of freedom from infection that is achieved. As part of the STOC free project, a Bayesian Hidden Markov model was developed, called STOC free model, to estimate the probability of infection at herd-level. In the current study, the STOC free model was applied to BVDV field data in four study regions, from CPs based on ear notch samples. The aim of this study was to estimate the probability of herd-level freedom from BVDV in regions that are not (yet) free. We additionally evaluated the sensitivity of the parameter estimates and predicted probabilities of freedom to the prior distributions for the different model parameters. First, default priors were used in the model to enable comparison of model outputs between study regions. Thereafter, country-specific priors based on expert opinion or historical data were used in the model, to study the influence of the priors on the results and to obtain country-specific estimates. The STOC free model calculates a posterior value for the model parameters (e.g. herd-level test sensitivity and specificity, probability of introduction of infection) and a predicted probability of infection. The probability of freedom from infection was computed as one minus the probability of infection. For dairy herds that were considered free from infection within their own CP, the predicted probabilities of freedom were very high for all study regions ranging from 0.98 to 1.00, regardless of the use of default or country-specific priors. The priors did have more influence on two of the model parameters, herd-level sensitivity and the probability of remaining infected, due to the low prevalence and incidence of BVDV in the study regions. The advantage of STOC free model compared to scenario tree modelling, the reference method, is that actual data from the CP can be used and estimates are easily updated when new data becomes available.


pmid: 33053462
title: BVDV-1 induces interferon-beta gene expression through a pathway involving IRF1, IRF7, and NF-κB activation
abstract: The bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV-1) is a pathogen with the capacity to modulate the interferon type I system. To further investigate the effects of BVDV-1 on the production of the immune response, the Madin-Darby bovine kidney cell line was infected with the cytopathic CH001 field isolate of BVDV-1, and the IFNbeta expression profiles were analyzed. The results showed that cpBVDV-1 was able to induce the production of IFNbeta in a way similar to polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid, but with less intensity. Interestingly, all cpBVDV-1 activities were blocked by pharmacological inhibitors of the IRF-1, IRF-7, and NF-κB signaling pathway, and the level of IFNbeta decreased at the level of transcript and protein. These results, together with in silico analyses showing the presence of several regulatory consensus target motifs, suggest that cpBVDV-1 regulates IFNbeta expression in bovines through the activation of several key transcription factors. Collectively, the results suggest that during cpBVDV-1 infection, cross talk is evident between various signaling pathways involved in transcriptional activation of IFNbeta in cattle.


pmid: 27771055
title: Induction of functional interferon alpha and gamma responses during acute infection of cattle with non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: As a part of their pathogenic mechanism, many pathogens causing persistent infections, including bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), immunosuppress their hosts, often by limiting the ability to either produce, or respond to, interferon. The objective of this study was to quantify the extent to which an acute infection of cattle with a non-cytopathic strain of BVDV induces interferon responses and to establish the functionality of these responses. Functionality of responses was investigated using a bovine specific peptide array to monitor kinase-mediated signal transduction activity within peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) at time points corresponding to the interferon gamma (IFN-γ) and alpha (IFN-α) responsive phases of acute BVDV infection. Further, with an appreciation of diverse mechanisms and levels at which pathogens modulate host cell defences, patterns of expression of IFN-γ and -α responsive genes were also quantified within PBMCs. Infection of cows with ncpBVDV2-1373 induced significant increases in levels of serum IFN-γ and IFN-α. Within the PBMCs of the infected animals, distinct patterns of kinase-mediated signal transduction activity, in particular with respect to activation of classic IFN-activated signalling pathways, such as Jak-Stat, as well as induced expression of IFN-γ and IFN-α regulated genes, support the functionality of the host interferon response.


pmid: 29024616
title: Investigation of infectious reproductive pathogens of large ruminants: Are neosporosis, brucellosis, leptospirosis and BVDV of relevance in Lao PDR?
abstract: N. caninum, bovine viral diarrhoea virus, Brucella abortus and Leptospira interrogans serovar Hardjo are globally significant reproductive pathogens that cause abortion and reproductive loss in large ruminants. Prevalence information is lacking in Lao People's Democratic Republic (Laos) despite the poor reproductive performance of cattle and buffalo. Serological examination of frozen cattle (n=90) and buffalo (n=61) sera by commercially available enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays provided the first reported screening of some of these pathogens in Laos. Seroprevalence differed amongst these large ruminant species, with N. caninum, BVDV and L. interrogans serovar Hardjo antibodies found in 68.9% (95% CI±11.6), 4.9% (95% CI±5.4) and 3.3% (95% CI±4.5) of buffalo sera, respectively, and in 7.8% (95% CI±5.5), 10.0% (95% CI±6.2) and 22.2% (95% CI±8.6) of cattle sera, respectively. Buffalo sera had a significantly higher seroprevalence of N. caninum compared to cattle (p<0.001) and cattle sera had a significantly higher seroprevalence of L. interrogans serovar Hardjo compared to buffalo (p=0.003). Variability was also observed across provinces for N. caninum in buffalo (p=0.007) and for L. interrogans serovar Hardjo in cattle (p=0.071), suggesting provincial risk factors conducive to pathogen transmission. BVDV and N. caninum seropositivity were negatively associated in buffalo (p=0.018) and cattle (p=0.003). In buffalo, L. interrogans serovar Hardjo and BVDV seropositivity were associated (p=0.035, p=0.039). The identification of antibodies against three major abortifacient pathogens in Laos prompts further research to determine if infection is associated with low reproductive efficiency and the risk factors for infection. This is needed for the development of evidence based prevention strategies for improved large ruminant reproductive management among smallholders in Laos.


pmid: 26050568
title: Innate and adaptive immune responses to in utero infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Infection of pregnant cows with noncytopathic (ncp) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) induces rapid innate and adaptive immune responses, resulting in clearance of the virus in less than 3 weeks. Seven to 14 days after inoculation of the cow, ncpBVDV crosses the placenta and induces a fetal viremia. Establishment of persistent infection with ncpBVDV in the fetus has been attributed to the inability to mount an immune response before 90-150 days of gestational age. The result is 'immune tolerance', persistent viral replication and shedding of ncpBVDV. In contrast, we describe the chronic upregulation of fetal Type I interferon (IFN) pathway genes and the induction of IFN-γ pathways in fetuses of cows infected on day 75 of gestation. Persistently infected (PI) fetal IFN-γ concentrations also increased at day 97 at the peak of fetal viremia and IFN-γ mRNA was significantly elevated in fetal thymus, liver and spleen 14-22 days post maternal inoculation. PI fetuses respond to ncpBVDV infection through induction of Type I IFN and IFN-γ activated genes leading to a reduction in ncpBVDV titer. We hypothesize that fetal infection with BVDV persists because of impaired induction of IFN-γ in the face of activated Type I IFN responses. Clarification of the mechanisms involved in the IFN-associated pathways during BVDV fetal infection may lead to better detection methods, antiviral compounds and selection of genetically resistant breeding animals.


pmid: 21536312
title: Development of a triplex TaqMan real-time RT-PCR assay for differential detection of wild-type and HCLV vaccine strains of classical swine fever virus and bovine viral diarrhea virus 1
abstract: In this study, genomic sequences of pestiviruses available in GenBank were aligned to design three primer pairs and TaqMan probes: two targeting the NS5A region of the viral genome of classical swine fever virus (CSFV) for the differentiation of wild-type CSFV and hog cholera lapinized vaccine (HCLV) vaccine, and one targeting the 5'-untranslated region of bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1). With these primers and probes, a triplex TaqMan real-time RT-PCR assay was developed for differentiating wild-type CSFV, the HCLV strain, and BVDV-1. The detection limit of the assay was 4.5 TCID(50) for wild-type CSFV, 10 TCID(50) for HCLV-strain CSFV, and 3.2 TCID(50) for BVDV-1. The triplex real-time RT-PCR had at least 98% (248 samples) agreement with other RT-PCR methods. The assay provides a sensitive tool for simultaneous detection and differentiation of wild-type CSFV and HCLV from BVDV-1.


pmid: 18379085
title: Design, synthesis and anti flaviviridae activity of N(6)-, 5',3'-O- and 5',2'-O-substituted adenine nucleoside analogs
abstract: During a random screening of representative libraries of nucleoside analogues we discovered that the adenine derivatives FEVB28 and FEG118 were Flaviviridae inhibitors endowed with potency comparable, if not superior, to that of ribavirin. Those studies prompted us to design a new class of protected nucleoside analogs, reported herein, which displays interesting anti-bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) activity and low cytotoxicity in cell-based assays (4, 23, 29 EC(50): 14, 11, 26 microM respectively, CC(50)>100 microM) and appreciable activity in enzyme assays against the RNA dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) of BVDV (4, 23, 29, RdRp inhibition activity 27, 16, 15 microM respectively). A molecular modeling study was also carried out to highlight the possible interactions between this compounds class and the corresponding hepatitis C virus (HCV) enzyme.


pmid: 8748547
title: Six antigenic groups within the genus pestivirus as identified by cross neutralization assays
abstract: Antigenic differences between pestivirus isolates of ruminant and porcine origin were characterized by neutralization assays. First, six different clusters of pestiviruses were identified by clustering cross-neutralization results of 13 pestivirus strains tested against 23 sera. Cluster I consisted of four strains of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) of bovine origin and two BVDV isolates of porcine origin. Cluster II consisted of one sheep isolate and two porcine BDV isolates. Cluster III consisted of one classical swine fever virus strain and cluster IV, V, and VI each consisted of one strain isolated from a giraffe, a deer, and a pig. After the clusters were identified, one-way neutralization tests were used to test a total of 45 pestivirus isolates. Although the same six groups were found, results of some individual strains differed from previous cross-neutralization results and the results obtained by typing with monoclonal antibodies. The discrepancy between one way neutralization tests and cross-neutralisation tests is demonstrated clearly by recalculation of the cross-neutralization results without the classical swine fever sera. We conclude that neutralization tests are only suitable to characterize antigenic differences when virus strains are tested in a cross-neutralization test.


pmid: 7817501
title: [Development of PCR tests for the detection of bovine herpesvirus-1, bovine respiratory syncytial viruses and pestiviruses]
abstract: The development of PCR assays for detection of BHV-1, BRSV, BVDV and another pestiviruses is summarized. A polymerase chain reaction assay based on primers selected from the viral gI glycoprotein gene detected 3 fg pure BHV-1 DNA, 0.1-1.0 TCID50 or a single infected cell. No amplification was observed with DNA from BHV-2, BHV-3, BHV-4, OHV-1 or OHV-2. However, a fragment of the correct size (468 bp) was amplified using DNA from herpesviruses isolated from reindeer, red deer and goat. The PCR assay was able to detect virus in nasal swabs 1-14 days after experimental infection of cattle and there was a good correlation when PCR was compared to virus isolation for the detection of BHV-1 in clinical field samples. Detection of BHV-1 in fetal bovine serum and semen samples was also successful. PCR detecting a broad range of BVDV, BDV and HCV was developed. Of six sets of primers selected from different parts of the pestivirus genome the best results were provided by a pair 324/326 from the highly conserved 5'-non-coding region which gave an amplification with all 129 isolates tested. This panel consisted of 79 isolates from cattle, 33 from pigs and 17 from sheep. Differentiation between viruses was achieved by cleavage of the PCR-amplified products (288 bp) with the restriction endonucleases AvaI and BglI. The BVDV products were cleaved by AvaI, HCV by BglI and AvaI. Both enzymes, AvaI and BglI, did not cut the BDV products. A nested polymerase chain reaction assay was developed for the detection of bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV). Primers were selected from the gene encoding the F fusion protein. The sensitivity of PCR assay was 0.1 TCID50. No cross reaction was observed with nine heterologous respiratory viruses. PCR products of bovine and human RSV strains were discriminated using endonuclease ScaI, which specifically cleaved products of BRSV. PCR assay detected BRSV in nasal swabs collected from cattle in the acute stage of respiratory disease. In vitro amplification detected 31 positive samples of 35 while immunofluorescence only 23 samples.


pmid: 30553108
title: Identification of BVDV2b and 2c subgenotypes in the United States: Genetic and antigenic characterization
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a ubiquitous pathogen of cattle, causes subclinical to severe acute disease. Two species of BVDV are recognized, BVDV1 and BVDV2 with BVDV1 divided into at least 21 subgenotypes and BVDV2 into 3-4 subgenotypes, most commonly using sequences from the 5' untranslated region (5' UTR). We report genomic sequencing of 8 BVDV2 isolates that did not segregate into the 2a subgenotype; but represented two additional BVDV2 subgenotypes. One BVDV2 subgenotype was previously recognized only in Asia. The other seven viruses fell into a second subgenotype that was first reported in Brazil and the U.S. in 2002. Neutralization assays using antiserum raised against vaccine strain BVDV2a 296c revealed varying degrees of neutralization of genetically diverse BVDV2 isolates. Neutralization titers decreased from 1.8 to more than a four log(2) decrease. This study illustrated the considerable genetic and antigenic diversity in BVDV2 circulating in the U.S.


pmid: 26864026
title: Absence of circulation of Pestivirus between wild and domestic ruminants in southern Spain
abstract: Ruminant pestiviruses (family Flaviviridae) affect both wild and domestic ruminants worldwide, causing reproductive disorders and severe economic losses. Wild (n=1442) and domestic (n=373) ruminants from southern Spain were tested for the presence of antibodies to pestiviruses. Seropositivity was detected by both ELISA and virus neutralisation test in 1/892 (0.1 per cent) red deer, 29/125 (23.2 per cent) cattle and 17/157 (10.8 per cent) sheep. Pestivirus-specific antibodies to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and border disease virus (BDV) genotypes 1, 4 and 5 were detected. Significantly higher antibody titres to BDV-4 compared with BVDV-NADL were found in one cattle farm. Results indicate that wild ruminants may act as spillover hosts from domestic ruminants, and therefore they do not represent a risk for domestic ruminants in southern Spain. The wide distribution of pestiviruses among sheep and cattle suggests that transmission between these species may occur.


pmid: 21272941
title: Detection of colostrum-derived alloantibodies in calves with bovine neonatal pancytopenia
abstract: Bovine neonatal pancytopenia (BNP) is an emerging calf disease of unknown cause characterized by a pronounced susceptibility to bleeding as a result of a pancytopenia and bone marrow depletion. In this study we investigated whether this phenomenon is related to colostrum-derived alloantibodies directed against neonatal leukocytes. In a first experiment and using a flow cytometric approach sera from 6 BNP-dams (had given birth to BNP-calves; vaccinated against bovine viral diarrhea virus [BVDV]) and 6 control-dams (no herd history of BNP; no BVDV vaccination) were analyzed for the presences of alloantibodies (IgG) able to bind to the surface of leukocytes isolated from 7 calves from a herd with no history of BNP (no BVDV vaccination). In a second experiment, 4 neonates from 3 BNP-dams were fed colostrum from their corresponding mothers and sampled on a regular basis from birth up to day 21 of life under clinically controlled conditions. Sample analysis of the 4 neonates included hematology (white blood cell count and platelets), bone marrow cytology and histopathology as well as the flow cytometric detection of the percentage of IgG+-lymphocytes/monocytes in the peripheral blood. Experiment #1 showed that all BNP-dam sera harbored significantly higher alloantibody titers than the control dam sera (p<0.001). In the peripheral blood of the two neonates (Experiment #2), the percentage of IgG+-cells increased dramatically within 12h post colostrum intake (p.c.i.), remaining at over 95% for up to 3 days. Both calves developed BNP-associated clinical symptoms, one died. Both twin calves showed no clinical symptoms accompanied by a minor increase of IgG+ cells for up to 12h. Thus, the level of IgG+-cells and the duration of the detection thereof correlated with the severity of BNP developed by these animals. The results show that BNP-dams harbor alloantibodies against surface antigens of neonatal leukocytes in their sera that are readily transferred to the offspring via colostrum. These alloantibodies probably play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of BNP.


pmid: 19014339
title: Differential expression of the type I interferon pathway during persistent and transient bovine viral diarrhea virus infection
abstract: Persistent infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) serves as a reservoir for the perpetuation of infection in cattle populations and causes a range of adverse effects on the health of the host. To study the interactions of the virus with the host, gene expression was compared in the blood of persistently infected (PI) and uninfected steer, and in the blood and tissues of PI fetuses, transiently infected (TI), and uninfected bovine fetuses. Microarray analysis of PI steer blood revealed differential gene expression indicative of an interferon (IFN) response including genes involved in cell cycle regulation, which may contribute to long-term adverse effects. Upregulation of IFN-stimulated genes (e.g., ISG15, PKR) and RNA helicases (RIG-I, LGP2, MDA-5) was identified in both PI fetal and steer blood in comparison to controls, indicating a continued stimulation of the innate antiviral response as a result of the persistent viremia. ISG15 was studied in further detail, implicating reticular cells as basal producers of ISG15 in the spleen, in addition to endothelial and macrophage-like cells in infected spleen. Consequences of chronic IFN pathway activation in PI cattle may include growth- and immunosuppression, the pathogenesis of which is still poorly understood. This study lends new insights into the interactions between BVDV and its host, and can serve as a model for studies of the role of the IFN system in persistent infections.


pmid: 14670594
title: Antiviral activity of hop constituents against a series of DNA and RNA viruses
abstract: We investigated whether crude hop extracts and purified hop components representing every major chemical class of hop compound have antiviral activity. These hop constituents were tested for antiviral activity against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) as a surrogate model of hepatitis C virus (HCV), human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), influenza A virus (FLU-A), influenza B virus (FLU-B), rhinovirus (Rhino), respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), yellow fever virus (YFV), cytomegalovirus (CMV), hepatitis B virus (HBV), and herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) and type 2 (HSV-2). The extracts all failed to prevent the replication of HIV, FLU-A, FLU-B, RSV and YFV. A xanthohumol-enriched hop extract displayed a weak to moderate antiviral activity against BVDV (therapeutic index (TI)=6.0), HSV-2 (TI=>5.3), Rhino (TI=4.0) and HSV-1 (TI=>1.9) with IC(50) values in the low microg/ml range. Pure iso-alpha-acids demonstrated low to moderate antiviral activity against both BVDV (TI=9.1) and CMV (TI=4.2) with IC(50) values in the low microg/ml range. No antiviral activity was detected using beta-acids or a hop oil extract. Ultra-pure preparations (>99% pure) were used to show that xanthohumol accounted for the antiviral activity observed in the xanthohumol-enriched hop extract against BVDV, HSV-1 and HSV-2. Xanthohumol was found to be a more potent antiviral agent against these viruses than the isomer iso-xanthohumol. With Rhino, the opposite trend was observed with iso-xanthohumol showing superior antiviral activity to that observed with xanthohumol. Xanthohumol also showed antiviral activity against CMV, suggesting that it might have a generalized anti-herpesvirus antiviral activity. Again, superior antiviral activity was observed with the xanthohumol isomer against CMV. In summary, iso-alpha-acids and xanthohumol were shown to have a low-to-moderate antiviral activity against several viruses. These hop constituents might serve as interesting lead compounds from which more active anti-HCV, anti-Rhino and anti-herpesvirus antiviral agents could be synthesized.


pmid: 16566452
title: Bovine serum--regulatory issues
abstract: For many years users of bovine serum in the manufacture of human and veterinary biological medicinal products have relied upon USDA 9CFR to ensure the viral safety of their serum. Recently, EU regulators have formalised their position by issuing guidelines on the use of bovine serum during manufacture. Additionally, the European Pharmacopoeia has drafted a monograph on bovine serum. There is good harmonisation among the recommendations and requirements although the EU CHMP guideline calls for greater attention to be paid to the potential presence of infectious bovine polyoma virus. The EU guidelines also call for various tests to assess the effect of BVDV antibodies in the detection of BVDV. However, in response to criticisms from serum suppliers and users, the stringency of these recommendations is being relaxed. The overall viral safety of bovine serum should be subject to a risk analysis as infectious virus will invariably be present in some batches of serum but remain undetected. Other factors such as the geographical source of the serum, the efficacy of viral inactivation/removal steps and the ability of specific viruses to grow in the production cells being used, should be taken into consideration.


pmid: 32335107
title: Antiviral activity of native banana lectin against bovine viral diarrhea virus and bovine alphaherpesvirus type 1
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and bovine alphaherpesvirus type 1 (BoHV-1) are responsible for major economic losses of livestock worldwide, making their eradication an important objective of veterinary research. Vaccines against these infectious agents are commercially available but have some limitations due to the specific features of these viral agents. The development of new antiviral drugs is therefore essential. Native banana lectin (BanLec) is a lectin isolated from banana fruit (Musa acuminata) and has a high affinity for mannose glycans found in several viral envelopes. The inhibitory properties of this lectin against several viruses has already been demonstrated. The aim of this work was therefore to test the antiviral and virucidal activities of BanLec against BVDV-1 and BoHV-1. Its antiviral activity was assessed by measuring the viral titer and viability of susceptible Madin-Darby Bovine Kidney cells (MDBK) treated with BanLec before and after viral infection. The virucidal properties of BanLec were determined by preincubation of the lectin with the viruses, followed by measurement of the viral load in exposed cells. Treatment with 25 μg/mL BanLec resulted in high levels of inhibition against BVDV-1 (99.98%) and BoHV-1 (99.68%) without affecting cell viability, demonstrating promising potential as an antiviral agent.


pmid: 29385600
title: Effects of gradual reduction in frequency of energy supplementation on growth and immunity of beef steers
abstract: This study evaluated the effects of gradual reduction in frequency of energy supplementation following vaccination on growth and measurements of innate and humoral immunity of beef steers. At 14-d postweaning (d 0), Angus steers (n = 42; 200 ± 5 kg of BW; 175 ± 4 d of age) were stratified by BW and age, and randomly assigned into 1 of 14 drylot pens (three steers/pen). From d 0 to 42, steers were provided ad libitum ground tall fescue hay (57% TDN, 13% CP of DM basis) and supplemented with concentrate at 1% of BW (50:50 soybean hulls and corn gluten feed; 71% TDN, 15% CP of DM basis). Treatments were randomly assigned to pens, and consisted of similar weekly concentrate DM supplementation (1% of BW multiplied by 7 d) that was divided and offered daily from d 0 to 42 (7X; 4 pens), 3 times weekly from d 0 to 42 (3X; Monday, Wednesday, and Friday; 5 pens), or daily from d 0 to 15 and then 3 times weekly from d 16 to 42 (7-3X; 5 pens). Steers were vaccinated against infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), parainfluenza-3 (PI-3), Mannheimia haemolytica, and Clostridium on d 0 and 15. Individual shrunk BW was collected on d 0 and 42, following 12 h of feed and water withdrawal. Blood samples were collected via jugular venipuncture 4 h after concentrate supplementation on d 0, 1, 2, 3, 7, 15, 16, 17, 18, 22, and 42. Mean BW, ADG, G:F, hay DMI, and total DMI over the 42-d period did not differ among treatments (P ≥ 0.26). Plasma concentrations of cortisol and mean serum BVDV-1a titers also did not differ among treatments (P ≥ 0.35), but overall plasma haptoglobin concentrations were greater for 3X vs. 7-3X and 7X steers (P ≤ 0.05; 0.44, 0.37, and 0.33 ± 0.026 mg/mL, respectively). Also, 3X steers had less mean serum IBR titers (P ≤ 0.05; 0.29 vs. 0.88 and 0.79 ± 0.179 log2, respectively) and less seroconversion to PI-3 virus on d 15 than 7-3X and 7X steers (P ≤ 0.05; 36.0 vs. 76.6 and 57.8 ± 8.24%, respectively). In summary, a gradual reduction in frequency of energy supplementation during a 42-d preconditioning period did not negatively impact growth, but alleviated indices of inflammation and prevented reductions in vaccine response against BVDV-1a and PI-3 viruses compared to steers offered concentrate 3 times weekly during the entire study.


pmid: 24071554
title: Detection of contaminants in cell cultures, sera and trypsin
abstract: The aim of this study was standardization and application of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for the detection of contaminants in cell cultures, sera and trypsin. Five PCR protocols were standardized to assess the presence of genetic material from mycoplasma, porcine circovirus 1 (PCV1), bovine leukemia virus (BLV) or bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in cell culture samples. PCR reactions for the genes GAPDH and beta-actin were used to evaluate the efficiency of nucleic acid extraction. The PCR protocols were applied to 88 cell culture samples from eight laboratories. The tests were also used to assess potential contamination in 10 trypsin samples and 13 fetal calf serum samples from different lots from five of the laboratories. The results showed the occurrence of the following as DNA cell culture contaminants: 34.1% for mycoplasma, 35.2% for PCV1, 23.9% for BVDV RNA and 2.3% for BLV. In fetal calf sera and trypsin samples BVDV RNA and PCV1 DNA was detected. The results demonstrated that cell culture, sera and trypsin used by different laboratories show a high rate of contaminants. The results highlight the need for monitoring cell cultures and controlling for biological contaminants in laboratories and cell banks working with these materials.


pmid: 22766180
title: Evaluation of envelope glycoprotein E(rns) of an atypical bovine pestivirus as antigen in a microsphere immunoassay for the detection of antibodies against bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 and atypical bovine pestivirus
abstract: Atypical bovine pestiviruses are related antigenically and phylogenetically to bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV-1 and BVDV-2), and may cause the same clinical manifestations in animals. Glycoprotein E(rns) of an atypical bovine pestivirus Th/04_KhonKaen was produced in a baculovirus expression system and was purified by affinity chromatography. The recombinant E(rns) protein was used as an antigen in a microsphere immunoassay for the detection of antibodies against BVDV-1 and atypical bovine pestivirus. The diagnostic performance of the new method was evaluated by testing a total of 596 serum samples, and the assay was compared with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Based on the negative/positive cut-off median fluorescence intensity (MFI) value of 2800, the microsphere immunoassay had a sensitivity of 100% and specificity of 100% compared to ELISA. The immunoassay was able to detect antibodies against both BVDV-1 and the atypical pestivirus. This novel microsphere immunoassay has the potential to be multiplexed for simultaneous detection of antibodies against different bovine pathogens in a high-throughput and economical way.


pmid: 22395914
title: Comparative [corrected] codon usage between the three main viruses in pestivirus genus and their natural susceptible livestock
abstract: Classical swine fever virus, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and border disease virus can cause serious livestock diseases. The relative synonymous codon usage value, the "effective number of codons" (ENC), the ratio of K(s) value to K(a) value and the principle component analysis were employed to analyze the genetic characteristics of open reading frame (ORF) and the four genes (the N(pro), Erns, E1, E2 genes) of the three viruses and the relationship of codon usage pattern between each virus and its most common host. The amount of under-represented codons is larger than the amount of over-represented ones in ORFs or the four genes of the three viruses. The ENC value and the ratio of K(s)/K(a) for each gene show that mutation pressure plays a role in their evolutional processes. In addition, the evidence that selection from the natural host might influences the codon usage patterns of virus is found in the differences of codon usage patterns of ORF and Erns gene of BVDV strain ZM-95 isolated from domestic pig and those of the rest of BVDV strains isolated from cattle. These results indicate that although a strong mutation pressure from the three pestiviruses takes part in their evolutional processes by the alternation of synonymous codons, translation selection from the susceptible livestock on some genes should not be ignored. The codon usage pattern of the three pestiviruses is a result caused by the equilibrium of mutation pressure from virus and translation selection from its host.


pmid: 15698782
title: Synthesis and anti-viral activity of a series of d- and l-2'-deoxy-2'-fluororibonucleosides in the subgenomic HCV replicon system
abstract: Based on the discovery of (2'R)-d-2'-deoxy-2'-fluorocytidine as a potent anti-hepatitis C virus (HCV) agent, a series of d- and l-2'-deoxy-2'-fluororibonucleosides with modifications at 5- and/or 4-positions were synthesized and evaluated for their in vitro activity against HCV and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). The key step in the synthesis, the introduction of 2'-fluoro group, was achieved by either fluorination of 2,2'-anhydronucleosides with hydrogen fluoride-pyridine or potassium fluoride, or a fluorination of arabinonucleosides with DAST. Among the 27 analogues synthesized, only the 5-fluoro compound, namely (2'R)-d-2'-deoxy-2',5-difluorocytidine (13), demonstrated potent anti-HCV activity and toxicity to ribosomal RNA. The replacement of the 4-amino group with a thiol group resulted in the loss of activity, while the 4-methylthio substituted analogue (25) exhibited inhibition of ribosomal RNA. As N(4)-hydroxycytidine (NHC) had previously shown potent anti-HCV activity, we combined the two functionalities of the N(4)-hydroxyl and the 2'-fluoro into one molecule, resulting (2'R)-d-2'-deoxy-2'-fluoro-N(4)-hydroxycytidine (23). However, this nucleoside showed neither anti-HCV activity nor toxicity. All the l-forms of the analogues were devoid of anti-HCV activity. None of the compounds showed anti-BVDV activity, suggesting that the BVDV system cannot always predict anti-HCV activity.


pmid: 28111144
title: Evaluation of reproductive protection against bovine viral diarrhea virus and bovine herpesvirus-1 afforded by annual revaccination with modified-live viral or combination modified-live/killed viral vaccines after primary vaccination with modified-live viral vaccine
abstract: The objective of this study was to compare reproductive protection in cattle against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and bovine herpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1) provided by annual revaccination with multivalent modified-live viral (MLV) vaccine or multivalent combination viral (CV) vaccine containing temperature-sensitive modified-live BoHV-1 and killed BVDV when MLV vaccines were given pre-breeding to nulliparous heifers. Seventy-five beef heifers were allocated into treatment groups A (n=30; two MLV doses pre-breeding, annual revaccination with MLV vaccine), B (n=30; two MLV doses pre-breeding, annual revaccination with CV vaccine) and C (n=15; saline in lieu of vaccine). Heifers were administered treatments on days 0 (weaning), 183 (pre-breeding), 366 (first gestation), and 738 (second gestation). After first calving, primiparous cows were bred, with pregnancy assessment on day 715. At that time, 24 group A heifers (23 pregnancies), 23 group B heifers (22 pregnancies), and 15 group C heifers (15 pregnancies) were commingled with six persistently infected (PI) cattle for 16days. Ninety-nine days after PI removal, cows were intravenously inoculated with BoHV-1. All fetuses and live offspring were assessed for BVDV and BoHV-1. Abortions occurred in 3/23 group A cows, 1/22 group B cows, and 11/15 group C cows. Fetal infection with BVDV or BoHV-1 occurred in 4/23 group A offspring, 0/22 group B offspring, and 15/15 group C offspring. This research demonstrates efficacy of administering two pre-breeding doses of MLV vaccine with annual revaccination using CV vaccine to prevent fetal loss due to exposure to BVDV and BoHV-1.


pmid: 31393897
title: Risk factors for Neospora caninum, bovine viral diarrhoea virus, and Leptospira interrogans serovar Hardjo infection in smallholder cattle and buffalo in Lao PDR
abstract: Smallholder large ruminant production in Lao People's Democratic Republic (Laos) is characterised by low reproductive efficiency. To determine if common abortifacient bovid infectious diseases are involved, a serological investigation was conducted. Sera was collected from stored and fresh cattle (n = 390) and buffalo (n = 130) samples from 2016-18 from, and then examined for associations in a retrospective risk factor study of 71 herds. The sera were assayed for antibodies to Neospora caninum, bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), Leptospira interrogans serovar Hardjo and Brucella abortus using commercially available enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kits. These pathogens were detected in buffalo samples at 78.5% (95% CI 71.4-85.6), 0%, 2.3% (95% CI 0-4.9) and 0%, respectively, and in cattle at 4.4% (95% CI 2.4-6.4), 7.7% (95% CI 3.1-12.3), 12.8% (95% CI 9.5-16.1) and 0.26% (95% CI 0-0.8), respectively. Exposure of buffalo to N. caninum was positively associated with buffalo age, with a predicted seropositivity at birth of 52.8%, increasing to 97.2% by 12 years of age (p = 0.037). Exposure of cattle to L. interrogans serovar Hardjo was more prevalent in females compared to males, was associated with higher titres of BVDV, and was more prevalent in the wet season compared to the dry season. Exposure of cattle to BVDV was more prevalent in males compared to females, the wet and dry seasons were comparable, and was associated with rising antibody titres against N. caninum and L. interrogans serovar Hardjo. The risk factor survey identified that the probability of herds being N. caninum positive increased with farmer age, if farmers believed there were rodents on farm, and if farmers weren't aware that canids or rodents could contaminate bovid feed on their farm. The probability of a herd being positive to L. interrogans serovar Hardjo increased on farms where multiple cows shared the same bull, where farmers had lower husbandry knowledge, and on farms that used water troughs. The probability of a herd being BVDV seropositive increased with increasing herd size and increasing titres to N. caninum. The benchmarking of bovid exposure to emerging abortifacient pathogens and identification of their risk factors potentially informs disease prevention strategies, supporting efforts to establish a biosecure beef supply for enhanced smallholder livestock productivity, public health and food security in Laos and surrounding countries.


pmid: 8974698
title: [Nanofiltration in production of Beriplex P/N: increasing the capacity of virus elimination while maintaining product quality]
abstract: For the manufacture of the PCC Beriplex P/N, nanofiltration was introduced into the production process of Beriplex HS providing an additional means to heat treatment for the clearance/inactivation of viruses. By nanofiltration, large enveloped viruses (HSV-1, HIV-1) were completely eliminated by a factor of more than 7 log10. While medium-sized enveloped viruses (HBV, BVDV) were cleared by a factor of approximately 4 log10, small non-enveloped viruses (poliovirus) were not removed. The product profile remained, no thrombogenic activities were detected.


pmid: 2164736
title: The coding region for the 54-kDa protein of several pestiviruses lacks host insertions but reveals a "zinc finger-like" domain
abstract: We sequenced cDNAs, amplified by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), which correspond to the carboxy-terminal portion of the 54-kDa protein of various cytopathic (cp) or noncytopathic (ncp) pestiviral strains. Except for the previously described insertions in two cp strains of the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), we did not find comparable insertions in this gene in eight pestiviral strains. The predicted amino acid sequences of this 54-kDa protein portion contain a conserved cysteine-rich stretch remarkably similar to a "zinc finger-type" binding domain found in many gene-regulatory proteins. Thus, this protein may be involved in the binding to viral RNA.


pmid: 3033062
title: Double-immunolabeling systems for phenotyping of immune cells harboring bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Optimal staining conditions were defined for simultaneous detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and mononuclear leukocyte surface antigens in tissue sections and cytospins. Because of the extreme lability of the virus antigens and the variable stability of the epitopes on the cell differentiation antigens, cryopreservation had to be used. This method gives slightly sub-optimal preservation of morphology. However, the specificity and sensitivity of the immunolabeling ensured reliable identification of the double-labeled cells, i.e., the phenotypic identification of virus-infected cells within the immune system.


pmid: 19701796
title: Serological survey of antibodies against BVD virus in camels (Camelus dromedarius) in Iran
abstract: This serological survey was carried out to detect antibodies in dromedary camels against BVD virus in Iran. A total of 137 serum samples, were collected from camels at Khorein abattoir in suburbs of Tehran and examined for BVDV, using the serum neutralization test (SNT). Twenty seven of the 137 camels (19.7%) were positive for BVDV antibodies. It was found that the rate of seropositive camels in Iran is substantially higher compared to figures published in most other countries. This study indicated an increased frequency of infection rate with increasing age of camels. The frequency of positive cases was not significantly different between male and female camels.


pmid: 34929412
title: Risk assessment and seroprevalence of bovine herpesvirus type 1 infection in dairy herds in the inner Aegean Region of Turkey
abstract: This cross-sectional study was performed to investigate the seroprevalence and associated risk factors of bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BoHV-1) infection in dairy cattle herds in Afyonkarahisar province in the Aegean Region of Turkey. Blood samples were collected from 602 cattle from 56 unvaccinated dairy herds between May 2018 and June 2019. Animal and herd-level epidemiological information was collected with a questionnaire during blood collection. Specific antibodies against BoHV-1 and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were detected by using a virus neutralization test and a commercial indirect ELISA kit, respectively. Univariable and multivariable logistic regression analyses were used to determine any association between categorical variables and BoHV-1 seropositivity. The animal-level and herd-level seroprevalences of BoHV-1 infection were determined to be 39.53% (95% confidence interval, CI: 35.71-43.50) and 73.21% (95% CI: 60.41-83.04), respectively. Within-herd prevalence was more than 50% in 34.14% of infected herds. Cattle age (odds ratio, OR= 2.34, 95% CI: 1.58-3.44), BVDV infection (OR= 7.74, 95% CI: 5.08-11.76), and the presence of goats in the herd (OR= 2.84, 95% CI: 1.91-4.19) were identified as risk factors for BoHV-1 seropositivity by the multivariable logistic regression model. This is the first study conducted in Turkey using two-layer sampling and logistic regression analyses to determine the herd-level and animal-level seroprevalence and associated risk factors of BoHV-1 infection.


pmid: 25480485
title: Association of Histophilus somni with spontaneous abortions in dairy cattle herds from Brazil
abstract: This study investigated the participation of infectious agents in spontaneous abortions and reproductive problems at eight dairy cattle herds from three geographical regions of Brazil. Fourteen aborted fetuses and the organ sections of one cow with history of repeated abortions were received for pathological evaluations and molecular diagnostics. PCR/RT-PCR assays targeted specific genes of abortifacient agents of cattle: bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine herpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1), Listeria monocytogenes, Neospora caninum, Leptospira spp., Brucella abortus, and Histophilus somni. Six fetuses were adequate for pathological investigations; one of these did not demonstrate remarkable pathological alterations. Significant histopathological findings included vasculitis, hemorrhage, and fibrinous thrombosis of the cerebrum (n = 4); necrotizing myocarditis (n = 3); and hemorrhagic enteritis (n = 3). The placenta and uterus of the cow as well as the kidney, pancreas, and liver of her aborted fetus contained H. somni DNA and demonstrated histopathological evidence of histophilosis. All fetuses contained H. somni DNA in multiple organs. Coinfections of H. somni with B. abortus (n = 2), N. caninum (n = 2), BVDV (n = 1), and BoHV-1 (n = 1) were identified; two fetuses demonstrated three pathogens. These findings suggest that H. somni was associated with the spontaneous abortions and reproductive problems of these herds. However, the exact cause of fetal death might not be attributed only to H. somni in all aborted fetuses, since some of these were infected with other abortifacient agents.


pmid: 19589650
title: Phylogenetic analysis and characterization of Korean bovine viral diarrhea viruses
abstract: Thirty-six bovine viral disease viruses (BVDVs) were identified in bovine feces (n=16), brains (n=2), and aborted fetuses (n=18) in Korea. To reveal the genetic diversity and characteristics of these Korean strains, the sequences of their 5'-untranslated regions (5'-UTRs) were determined and then compared with published reference sequences. Neighbor-joining phylogenetic analysis revealed that most of the Korean viruses were of the BVDV subtypes 1a (n=17) or 2a (n=17). The remaining strains were of subtypes 1b (n=1) and 1n (n=1). This analysis indicates that the 1a and 2a BVDV subtypes are predominant and widespread in Korea. In addition, the prevalence of BVDV-2 was markedly higher in aborted fetuses than in other samples and was more often associated with reproductive problems and significant mortality in cattle.


pmid: 15188954
title: The use of phenothiazine dyes to inactivate bovine viral diarrhea virus in goat colostrum
abstract: The objectives of this study were to determine the optimal concentration of phenothiazine dye required to inactivate bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in goat colostrum following 60 min of illumination and determine if immunoglobulin concentration is affected by this technique. In addition, the potential of continuous agitation of colostrum during illumination to affect viral kill was investigated. This experiment was designed to more closely approximate on-farm use than a previous pilot study performed by the same investigators. Bovine viral diarrhea virus was used as a model for caprine arthritis-encephalitis virus. Goat colostrum containing BVDV was illuminated for 60 min following the addition of either methylene blue (MB) or methylene violet (MV). Four different concentrations of each dye were evaluated. Illumination was performed in a small, portable chest-type freezer equipped on the inside with white fluorescent lights. Some samples were continuously rocked during illumination, while others remained stationary. Virus levels were determined before and after illumination. Immunoglobulin concentrations were determined for time 0 and 60 min. One microM MB reduced virus to undetectable levels following 60 min of illumination. A concentration of 20 microM MV was required to reduce virus levels to zero. Agitation of colostrum samples had no effect with either MB or MV on whether virus levels were reduced. High concentrations of MB and MV had no important effect on immunoglobulin concentrations.


pmid: 11535280
title: Validation of a test for dams carrying foetuses persistently infected with bovine viral-diarrhoea virus based on determination of antibody levels in late pregnancy
abstract: Our objective was to estimate, using a generalised linear mixed-model approach, the sensitivity and specificity of an indirect ELISA when used to identify dams pregnant with persistently bovine viral-diarrhoea virus (BVDV)-infected foetuses. Cows that had been tested for antibodies to BVDV with a positive result during their pregnancy and where the offspring had been tested for both antibody and virus were identified by accessing the Swedish BVD database and the official pedigree records. The resulting data set consisted of 2162 cow-calf pairs in 126 herds, of which 281 included virus-positive calves. The sensitivities and specificities at 12 different decision thresholds (corresponding to optical densities (ODs) between 0.5 and 1.6) were estimated using generalised linear mixed models (binomial error, logit link), in which the gold standard (the BVDV status of the calf) was included as a covariate. In each model, the dependent variable was the dichotomous test result at the decision threshold in question. There was a significant positive interaction between the calf's status and gestational stage in all 12 models--indicating that the sensitivity and specificity at any given decision threshold was improved when the the test was performed later in pregnancy. The test should be applied only when samples have been taken in late gestation--not before the seventh month in pregnancy. If applied during the last months of pregnancy, the point estimate of the sensitivity ranges between 0.94 and 1.0 as the decision threshold is moved from 1.0 and downwards to 0.7. Similarly, the specificity ranges between 0.39 and 0.67 as the decision threshold is moved from 0.8 and upwards to 1.1.


pmid: 21461198
title: Experimental infection of colostrum-deprived calves with bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1a isolated from free-ranging white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus)
abstract: The objective of this study was to experimentally infect calves with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) isolated from free-ranging white-tailed deer. Twelve colostrum-deprived male Holstein calves were used. Eight were inoculated intranasally with a BVDV type 1a isolated from free-ranging white-tailed deer, and the other four were inoculated with the cell culture medium only and served as a control group. Whole blood, saliva, and nasal and rectal secretions were collected on days 0, 3, 7, 10, 14, 17, and 21 after inoculation for virus isolation and real-time reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). On days 14 and 21, 4 calves in the infected group and 2 in the control group were euthanized; multiple tissue samples were collected for histopathologic study. Histopathologic changes included thymic atrophy and lymphoid depletion of the Peyer's patches in all 8 infected calves. The RT-PCR gave positive results with the buffy coat of all 8 infected calves, the nasal samples of 7, and the saliva samples of 2. Virus neutralization testing of the serum gave positive results for 4 of the 8 infected calves, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay of the serum gave positive results for 3. All of the samples from the control calves yielded negative results.


pmid: 11377717
title: Highly sensitive one-tube RT-PCR and microplate hybridisation assay for the detection and for the discrimination of classical swine fever virus from other pestiviruses
abstract: Rapid, sensitive and specific laboratory diagnostic methods are necessary to confirm outbreaks of classical swine fever. The detection of classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and its discrimination from other pestiviruses can be achieved by virus isolation on cell culture, antigen detection, or molecular methods. To reduce the time and the number of steps in the diagnostic procedure a sensitive and rapid detection method based on specific amplification of the pestiviral RNA by one-step reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) followed by detection and differentiation of the amplification products by pestivirus-, bovine viral diarrhoea virus- (BVDV-) and CSFV-specific capture probe hybridisation and colorimetric assay in microwell plates (enzyme liked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)) was developed. Two different methods using two gene regions for pestivirus RT-PCR amplification were carried out. One pair of primers was selected from the 5'-UTR region and the second one from the gene region coding for N(pro), C and E0 proteins. The designed oligonucleotide primers were used for several pestivirus reference strains as well as for some field isolates detection in cell culture supernatants and in clinical specimens. The specificity and sensitivity of both methods were compared using EZ rTth RNA PCR kit and ACCESS RT-PCR system for combined RT-PCR assay. The use of one-step RT-PCR eliminates the additional manipulations that are generally required for a two reaction system and limits the risk of carry-over contamination. Labelling of PCR products with digoxigenin (DIG) during the amplification reaction enables colorimetric assessment of hybridisation reactions. For solution hybridisation pestivirus-, BVDV- and CSFV-specific biotin-labelled capture probes were used. By serial dilutions of DIG-labelled PCR products the RT-PCR-ELISA was found to be 100-times more sensitive than the conventional agarose gel electrophoresis. Higher sensitivity of RT-PCR-ELISA detection using specific biotin-labelled probes offers the opportunity to eliminate strain specific nested PCR and to overcome the problems with contamination and false positive results.


pmid: 31902514
title: No effects of noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus type 2 on the reproductive tract of experimentally inoculated boars
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections in pigs may result in transient leukopenia, chronic gastroenteritis, septicemia, and hemorrhagic lesions. Both classical swine fever virus (CSF) and the atypical porcine pestivirus (APPV) are shed in the semen of infected boars. Because these viruses share conserved regions and present antigenic similarity, they may not be the only species belonging to the genus Pestivirus that can be shed in the semen of infected pigs. The objective of this study was to evaluate the testicular and epididymal changes, seminal parameters, and viral shedding in the reproductive tract of boars experimentally inoculated with noncytopathic BVDV-2. Six males were selected, and samples of blood, semen, and preputial swabs were collected every four days until the 52nd day after inoculation. The samples were tested for the presence of viral RNA by RT-PCR. An aliquot of whole blood was used to perform hematological analyses, which showed a significant reduction in monocyte counts and a significant increase in lymphocyte counts when comparing the pre- and postinoculation periods. The neutralizing antibody titers were determined by the virus neutralization test. None of the animals presented clinical signs or worsening of the seminal parameters that were evaluated. Moreover, BVDV-2 shedding by the reproductive route was not observed.


pmid: 30102924
title: A novel multiplex PCR-electronic microarray assay for rapid and simultaneous detection of bovine respiratory and enteric pathogens
abstract: Respiratory and enteric diseases continue to be two major causes of economic losses to the cattle industry worldwide. Despite their multifactorial etiology, the currently available diagnostic tests for bovine respiratory disease complex (BRDC) and bovine enteric disease (BED) are single-pathogen-tests. DNA microarray when combined with multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a powerful tool in detection and differentiation of multiple pathogens in a single sample. This study reports development and initial validation of two independent highly sensitive and specific multiplex PCR-electronic microarray assays, one for the detection and differentiation of pathogens of the BRDC and the other for detection and differentiation of pathogens of the BED. The BRDC multiplex PCR-microarray assay was able to detect and differentiate four bacteria (Mannheimia haemolytica, Histophilus somni, Pasteurella multocida, and Mycoplasma bovis) and five viruses [bovine parainfluenza virus-3, bovine respiratory syncytial virus, bovine herpesvirus-1, bovine coronavirus (BCoV), and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)] associated with BRDC. The BED multiplex PCR- microarray- assay was able to detect and differentiate four bacteria (Clostridium perfringens, Escherichia coli, Salmonella enterica Dublin, and Salmonella enterica Typhimurium), three protozoa (Eimeria zuernii, Eimeria bovis, and Cryptosporidium parvum), and four viruses (bovine torovirus, bovine rotavirus, BCoV, and BVDV) associated with the BED. Both assays detected their respective targets individually or in combination when present. The limit-of-detection of each assay at the PCR amplification and DNA microarray levels was determined using previously titrated laboratory amplified target pathogens or using quantified synthetic nucleotides. Both assays showed very high analytical sensitivity and specificity, and were validated using a limited number of clinical samples. The BRDC and BED multiplex PCR- microarray-assays developed in this study, with further clinical validation, could be used in veterinary diagnostic laboratories for the rapid and simultaneous identification of pathogens to facilitate quick and accurate decision making for the control and treatment of these two economically important disease complexes. Furthermore, these assays could be very effective tools in epidemiological studies as well as for screening of healthy animals to identify carriers that may potentially develop BRDC or BED.


pmid: 25014745
title: Synthesis and antiviral activity of new phenylimidazopyridines and N-benzylidenequinolinamines derived by molecular simplification of phenylimidazo[4,5-g]quinolines
abstract: Continuing our program of research concerning the antiviral activity of a wide series of new angular and linear azolo bicyclic and tricyclic derivatives, now we have simplified and modified the 4-chloro-2-(4-nitrophenyl)-3H-imidazo[4,5-g]quinoline 1, which previously resulted the most active derivative, through either the elimination of the central ring or the opening of the imidazole ring, obtaining various imidazopyridines and N-benzylidenequinolinamines respectively. Title compounds were tested in cell-based assays for cytotoxicity and antiviral activity against representatives of two DNA virus families as wells as against representatives of RNA virus families containing single-stranded, either positive-sense (ssRNA(+)) or negative-sense (ssRNA(-)), and double-stranded genomes (dsRNA). Some imidazo[4,5-b]pyridines emerged as new derivatives endowed with antiviral activity against Vaccinia Virus (VV) at concentrations ranging from 2 to 16 μM. In particular, compound 2b demonstrate to be about 10 times more potent than Cidofovir, used as reference drug. Similarly, the imidazo[4,5-c]pyridines and N-benzylidenequinolinamines derivatives resulted active against Bovine Viral Diarrhoea virus (BVDV), at concentrations ranging from 1.2 to 28 μM. Above all compounds 1, 3a and 3f showed an EC50 of the same order of magnitude of the reference drug, the 2'-C-methyl-guanosine. Moreover, several N-benzylidenequinolinamines showed an interesting activity against Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) at concentrations between 12 and 26 μM.


pmid: 20156486
title: A novel Hepatitis C virus p7 ion channel inhibitor, BIT225, inhibits bovine viral diarrhea virus in vitro and shows synergism with recombinant interferon-alpha-2b and nucleoside analogues
abstract: The novel small molecule, BIT225 (N-[5-(1-methyl-1H-pyrazol-4-yl)-napthalene-2-carbonyl]-guanidine: CAS No. 917909-71-8), was initially identified using a screening strategy designed to detect inhibitors of Hepatitis C virus (HCV) p7 ion channel activity. Here we report that BIT225 has potent stand-alone antiviral activity against the HCV model pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) with an IC(50) of 314nM. Combinations of BIT225 with recombinant interferon alpha-2b (rIFNalpha-2b) show synergistic antiviral action against BVDV and the synergy is further enhanced by addition of ribavirin. Synergy was also observed between BIT225 and two nucleoside analogues known to inhibit the HCV RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. BIT225 has successfully completed a phase Ia dose escalating, single dose safety trial in healthy volunteers and a phase Ib/IIa trial to evaluate the safety and pharmacokinetics of repeated dosing for selected doses of BIT225 in HCV-infected persons. A modest, but statistically significant drop in patient viral load was detected over the 7 days of dosing (ref. www.biotron.com.au). Given the critical role of the p7 protein in the HCV life cycle and pathogenicity, our data indicate that molecules like BIT225, representing a new class of antiviral compounds, may be developable for therapeutic use against HCV infection, either as monotherapy, or in combination with other HCV drugs.


pmid: 18633304
title: Dry-heat treatment process for enhancing viral safety of an antihemophilic factor VIII concentrate prepared from human plasma
abstract: Viral safety is a prerequisite for manufacturing clinical antihemophilic factor VIII concentrates from human plasma. With particular regard to the hepatitis A virus (HAV), a terminal dry-heat treatment (100 degrees for 30 min) process, following lyophilization, was developed to improve the virus safety of a solvent/detergent-treated antihemophilic factor VIII concentrate. The loss of factor VIII activity during dry-heat treatment was of about 5%. No substantial changes were observed in the physical and biochemical characteristics of the dry-heat-treated factor VIII compared with those of the factor VIII before dry-heat treatment. The dry-heat-treated factor VIII was stable for up to 24 months at 4oC. The dry-heat treatment after lyophilization was an effective process for inactivating viruses. The HAV, murine encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV), and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) were completely inactivated to below detectable levels within 10 min of the dry-heat treatment. Bovine herpes virus (BHV) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were potentially sensitive to the treatment. However porcine parvovirus (PPV) was slightly resistant to the treatment. The log reduction factors achieved during lyophilization and dry-heat treatment were > or =5.55 for HAV, > or =5.87 for EMCV, > or =5.15 for HIV, 6.13 for BHV, 4.46 for BVDV, and 1.90 for PPV. These results indicate that dry-heat treatment improves the virus safety of factor VIII concentrates, without destroying the activity. Moreover, the treatment represents an effective measure for the inactivation of non-lipid-enveloped viruses, in particular HAV, which is resistant to solvent/detergent treatment.


pmid: 18263838
title: Selenium status and antibodies to selected pathogens in white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) in Southern Minnesota
abstract: To determine exposure to a variety of infectious diseases potentially important for native ungulates, livestock, and humans, serum samples from 114 (94 adults, 20 fawns) female white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) were collected during January 2000-03 from multiple locations in southeast (SE) and southwest (SW) Minnesota. Antibody prevalence was determined for the following pathogens: Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis, Leptospira interrogans (six serovars), Anaplasma marginale, Borrelia burgdorferi, Brucella abortus, epizootic hemorrhagic disease virus, and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) types 1 and 2. Samples collected in 2001 were screened for antibodies against Anaplasma phagocytophilum, and whole blood was submitted for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing for A. phagocytophilum and B. burgdorferi. In addition, serum selenium concentrations were evaluated for samples collected during 2001-03. Antibody prevalence and selenium concentration were compared by age-class and geographic region. Antibodies to all of the infectious agents except A. marginale and B. abortus were detected; when detected, antibody prevalence was highest in adults. Deer collected from SE Minnesota had a higher antibody prevalence to B. burgdorferi than SW deer. Blood culture and PCR results for A. phagocytophilum and B. burgdorferi were negative. Antibodies against BVDV (combined types 1 and 2) were more prevalent (chi(2) = 3.617, P< or = 0.029) in deer collected in SW (41%) than in SE (25%) Minnesota. No statistically significant differences in serum selenium concentrations were detected when data were analyzed by age-class or by geographic location.


pmid: 18182528
title: Assessing the effect of sample handling on the performance of a commercial bovine viral diarrhea virus antigen-capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay
abstract: Handling practices of specimens may affect the sensitivity or specificity of diagnostic tests. In this study, as part of the Voluntary Iowa Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Screening Project held in 2006, 2 sample-handling practices were evaluated to determine how they affect the sensitivity and specificity of the antigen-capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ACE) for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). The null hypotheses investigated were 1) that maintenance of samples at room temperature would not be associated with decreased sensitivity, and 2) that continued use of a single pair of ear notchers would not be associated with cross-contamination of virus from 1 notch to another and reduce specificity. These hypotheses were tested in 2 studies by collecting known positive and negative samples and giving groups of samples different treatments. The first study used ACE on 4 groups of skin samples, all from a known-positive animal. Each group was subjected to different lengths of time at room temperature, from 24 to 96 hours at 24-hour intervals. No difference in test results was found between specimens subjected to different lengths of time at room temperature. The second study tested the effects of giving 3 different treatments to an ear notcher in between sample collecting (water rinse, Nolvasan solution rinse, or no treatment) on ACE results. No effect on sensitivity or specificity of ACE was observed. No difference in test results was found between the 3 ear-notcher treatment groups. The sample handling practices evaluated appeared to have little impact on test sensitivity or specificity of ACE for BVDV.


pmid: 15650102
title: Pestivirus exposure in free-living and captive deer in Austria
abstract: During the hunting season of 2001-02, blood and spleen samples from 59 red deer (Cervus elaphus), 77 roe deer (Capreolus capreolus), four fallow deer (Dama dama), and five chamois (Rupicapra rupicapra) were collected from nine hunting districts (n = 133) and one deer farm (n = 12) in southern Austria. Sera were tested for antibodies against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) with an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and virus neutralization tests against three BVDVs and one border disease virus strain. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction was used for detection of pestivirus-specific RNA in spleen samples. Antibodies were detected in one serum sample when using ELISA and virus neutralization tests. Results of the virus neutralization tests of this sample provided strong evidence for the exposure to the BVDV-1 genotype. The spleen samples were negative for pestivirus-specific RNA.


pmid: 15140988
title: Processing of a pestivirus protein by a cellular protease specific for light chain 3 of microtubule-associated proteins
abstract: The genome of the cytopathogenic (cp) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) JaCP contains a cellular insertion coding for light chain 3 (LC3) of microtubule-associated proteins, the mammalian homologue of yeast Aut7p/Apg8p. The cellular insertion induces cp BVDV-specific processing of the viral polyprotein by a cellular cysteine protease homologous to the known yeast protease Aut2p/Apg4p. Three candidate bovine protease genes were identified on the basis of the sequence similarity of their products with the Saccharomyces cerevisiae enzyme. The search for a system for functional testing of these putative LC3-specific proteases revealed that the components involved in this processing have been highly conserved during evolution, so that the substrate derived from a mammalian virus is processed in cells of mammalian, avian, fish, and insect origin, as well as in rabbit reticulocyte lysate, but not in wheat germ extracts. Moreover, two of these proteases and a homologous protein from chickens were able to rescue the defect of a yeast AUT2 deletion mutant. In coexpression experiments with yeast and wheat germ extracts one of the bovine proteases and the corresponding enzyme from chickens were able to process the viral polyprotein containing LC3. Northern blots showed that bovine viral diarrhea virus infection of cells has no significant influence on the expression of either LC3 or its protease, bAut2B2. However, LC3-specific processing of the viral polyprotein containing the cellular insertion is essential for replication of the virus since mutants with changes in the LC3 insertion significantly affecting processing at the LC3/NS3 site were not viable.


pmid: 14599778
title: Gene expression changes in MDBK cells infected with genotype 2 bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea viruses (BVDVs) are ubiquitous viral pathogens of cattle. These viruses exist as one of two biotypes, cytopathic and noncytopathic, based on the ability to induce cytopathic effect in cell culture. The noncytopathic biotypes are able to establish inapparent, persistent infections in both cell culture and in bovine foetuses of less than 150 days gestation. Interactions with the host cell and the mechanism by which viral tolerance is established are unknown. To examine the changes in gene expression that occur following infection of host cells with BVDV, serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE), a global gene expression technology was used. SAGE allows quantitation of virtually every transcript in a cell type without prior sequence information. Transcript expression levels and identities are determined by sequencing libraries composed of concatamers of 14 base DNA fragments (tags) derived from the 3'-end of each cellular mRNA transcript. Comparison of data obtained from uninfected and BVDV genotype 2-infected cell libraries revealed changes in gene expression associated with distinct biochemical pathways or functions. Isotypes of both alpha- and beta-tubulins were down-regulated, indicating possible dysfunction in cell division and other functions where microtubules play a major role. Expression of genes encoding proteins involved in energy metabolism were expressed at essentially equivalent levels in both infected and uninfected cells. Genes encoding proteins involved in protein translation and post-translational modifications, functions necessary for viral replication, were generally up-regulated. These data indicate that following infection with BVDV, changes in gene expression occur that are beneficial for virus replication while having only minor changes in energy metabolism.


pmid: 11554568
title: Assessing the within-herd prevalence of cows antibody-positive to bovine viral diarrhoea virus with a blocking ELISA on bulk tank milk
abstract: Milk samples from 135 herds in Brittany were tested by a blocking ELISA for antibodies to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and used to assess the relationship between the bulk milk result and the within-herd prevalence of antibody-positive lactating cows. This relationship was first quantified by using a general linear model and controlling for the number of cows contributing milk to the bulk tank, for the percentage of primiparous cows in the herds and for the number of milkings contributing to the bulk tank. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was then used to define classes of percentage inhibition in the bulk milk associated with minimum intraclass and maximum between-class variances of the within-herd prevalence. Only the percentage inhibition of bulk milk had a significant positive effect on within-herd prevalence (R2 = 0.85). The ROC analysis provided three classes of bulk milk results corresponding to different expected levels of within-herd prevalence. Herds with bulk milk percentage inhibitions of 0 to 35 per cent, 35 to 60 per cent and 60 to 100 per cent had mean (sd) observed prevalences of 4.8 (5.7) per cent, 21.6 (14.6) per cent and 66.0 (29.3) per cent, respectively. Herds with a bulk milk inhibition of 0 to 35 per cent were expected to be BVDV-free. A herd with two consecutive bulk milk results four months apart of 60 per cent or more was likely to have a very high prevalence (median of 93 per cent) and could be suspected of harbouring an active infection.


pmid: 7483906
title: Brain lesions in calves following transplacental infection with bovine-virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: In 33 calves and subadult cattle of the Holstein-Friesian breed ranging from 1 to 210 days of age, the spectrum of brain lesions induced by intra-uterine infection with bovine-virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was retrospectively analysed. Of these, 27 animals originated from herds with a long history of BVD. Six calves were derived from dams vaccinated between the 90th and 118th day of gestation with a BVD live vaccine. The most frequent lesion was cerebellar hypoplasia, being present in 25 out of 33 (76%) of the animals. In most of these cases, cerebellar hypoplasia was associated with hydranencephaly, internal hydrocephalus, microencephaly or porencephaly. In cases with hydranencephaly, the fluid-filled cavities were devoid of ependymal lining. The lumina of the lateral ventricles of these cases were surrounded by glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive cells and a dense layer of immunoreactive cell processes. In the white matter adjacent to the dilated ventricular lumina, a reactive astrocytosis was present. Porencephalic cysts were surrounded by astrocytes with increased expression of GFAP and vimentin-positive cells and cell processes. In hydranencephalic brains, staining for neuron-specific enolase (NSE) revealed a marked reduction of NSE-positive nerve cells in cortical areas. In all six experimental cases and in several field cases with hydranencephaly or internal hydrocephalus, small groups of heterotopic NSE-positive neurons were present in the white matter of the cerebral hemispheres. In markedly hypoplastic cerebella, reduction of the cortical cell layers and degenerative changes in, and heterotopia of, Purkinje cells were found. In these cases, NSE- and neurofilament-positive cell processes were either markedly diminished or only remnants of immunoreactive cell processes were present. In five animals without significant gross cerebellar abnormalities, degenerative changes of Purkinje cells were found. Immunohistochemical staining using antibodies against glial and neuron-specific proteins on these brains, which represent postnatal end-stage lesions of BVDV-induced disturbances of the normal brain development, did not provide any insight into the possible pathogenetic mechanisms of these alterations. Application of immunohistochemistry, however, revealed changes, such as reactive astrocytosis and loss of nerve cell processes, which were not obvious on haematoxylin and eosin (H&E) stained sections.


pmid: 35336913
title: Epigenomic and Proteomic Changes in Fetal Spleens Persistently Infected with Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus: Repercussions for the Developing Immune System, Bone, Brain, and Heart
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection during early gestation results in persistently infected (PI) immunotolerant calves that are the primary reservoirs of the virus. Pathologies observed in PI cattle include congenital defects of the brain, heart, and bone as well as marked functional defects in their immune system. It was hypothesized that fetal BVDV infection alters T cell activation and signaling genes by epigenetic mechanisms. To test this, PI and control fetal splenic tissues were collected on day 245 of gestation, 170 days post maternal infection. DNA was isolated for reduced representation bisulfite sequencing, protein was isolated for proteomics, both were analyzed with appropriate bioinformatic methods. Within set parameters, 1951 hypermethylated and 691 hypomethylated DNA regions were identified in PI compared to control fetuses. Pathways associated with immune system, neural, cardiac, and bone development were associated with heavily methylated DNA. The proteomic analysis revealed 12 differentially expressed proteins in PI vs. control animals. Upregulated proteins were associated with protein processing, whereas downregulated proteins were associated with lymphocyte migration and development in PI compared to control fetal spleens. The epigenetic changes in DNA may explain the immune dysfunctions, abnormal bone formation, and brain and heart defects observed in PI animals.


pmid: 24621850
title: Pooling serum to identify cohorts of nonmilking cattle likely to be infected with Bovine viral diarrhea virus by testing for specific antibodies
abstract: Testing for specific antibodies against Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in pooled serum may present an opportunity to decrease the cost of screening for herds of high seroprevalence and increased likelihood of active infection. Experimental serum pools (n = 280) were created by combining equal aliquots of serum from between 5 and 25 individuals. A further 188 serum pools were generated from field serum samples. All pools and individual sera were tested for BVDV-specific antibodies by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), according to manufacturer's instructions. Pools returned repeatable results, with coefficients of variation generally below 10%. The presence of serum from a persistently infected (PI) individual in the pool had no significant effect on the ELISA sample-to-positive (S/P) ratio. The results revealed that a single strong antibody-positive individual could maintain a positive result (at the manufacturer's threshold) in pools of up to 128, while even a single weak-positive animal would generate a positive result in pools of up to 8. The S/P ratio of the pool was positively related to the within-pool prevalence of antibody-positive individuals. However, as the strength of the individual positive animals contributing to the pool had a large effect on the pool S/P ratio, the S/P ratio could not be used to accurately predict the within-pool prevalence of field serum pools. An alternative method of S/P ratio interpretation was pursued, and a two-graph receiver operating characteristic analysis allowed segregation of pools into low, medium, and high risk with good results when applied to field serum pools.


pmid: 21831999
title: Prevalence of respiratory pathogens in diseased, non-vaccinated, routinely medicated veal calves
abstract: The prevalence of respiratory pathogens in diseased veal calves was determined in 24 respiratory disease outbreaks in 15 herds in Belgium. Bacteria were cultured from nasopharyngeal swabs and seroconversion against viruses and Mycoplasma bovis was determined on paired sera. At the individual calf level, Mycoplasma species, Mannheimia haemolytica and Pasteurella multocida, were isolated from 70.5 per cent, 21.5 per cent and 26.0 per cent of swabs, respectively. At the herd level, the presence of M bovis could be confirmed in 84.6 per cent of the herds examined. Seroconversion against bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was present in 71.4 per cent of herds, parainfluenzavirus type 3 in 53.3 per cent, bovine respiratory syncytial virus in 40.0 per cent, bovine adenovirus type 3 in 46.7 per cent, bovine coronavirus in 30.0 per cent, and bovine herpesvirus type 1 in 26.7 per cent. At postmortem examination, Mycoplasma species could be cultured from 61.9 per cent of pneumonic lungs (n=21). Sixty per cent of calves tested were positive for BVDV (n=20), and 20.0 per cent were positive for bovine respiratory syncytial virus (n=16).


pmid: 9287949
title: A computer simulation of the transmission dynamics and the effects of duration of immunity and survival of persistently infected animals on the spread of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in dairy cattle
abstract: This paper describes a computer model that mimics the spread of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection through a closed herd. The model is able to simulate the spread of infection when a persistently infected (PI) animal is introduced into an infection-free herd, and it is used to investigate the role of persistently infected animals, seroconverting animals, loss of PI calves and duration of immunity on the level of infection within the herd. Under typical management conditions one persistently infected animal poses a real threat to a herd, and the prospect of the herd becoming infection free in a 10-year period without intervention is remote. Seroconverting animals are found to be an important source of infection in herds with few immune animals. The increased loss of PI calves is likely to restrict the numbers of PI animals in a herd, and loss of immunity is important since it increases the possibility of a PI calf being born.


pmid: 2169672
title: ELISA detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus specific antibodies using recombinant antigen and monoclonal antibodies
abstract: A panel of monoclonal antibodies was prepared by immunization of BALB/c mice with Moredun (BD) virus strains. These antibodies were characterized by immunofluorescence and seroneutralization against BD, BVD and hog cholera (HC) virus strains, and radioimmunoprecipitation of BVD-infected cells extracts. The MAbs reacting with the majority of the Pestivirus strains recognize the 80 kDa antigen of the BVD cytophathic strains. The 80 kDa antigen of the BVD/Osloss virus strain has been cloned and expressed in E. coli as a fusion protein with beta-galactosidase. The fusion protein has been purified from inclusion bodies and used successfully as an antigen for ELISA detection of BVDV specific antibodies in bovine sera. A competitive ELISA using MAbs is more specific than a direct assay. These results compare well with the ones obtained with antigen extracted from BVDV-infected cells.


pmid: 1693844
title: Identification of conserved epitopes on a hog cholera virus protein
abstract: Eight monoclonal antibodies directed against the hog cholera virus (HCV) strain Alfort/187 and displaying broad cross-reactivity with other HCV strains were characterized. An enzyme immunoassay on fixed monolayers of porcine or bovine cells infected with 14 different strains and isolates of HCV and 12 bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV), respectively, showed that all antibodies reacted with HCV only. Seven antibodies recognized all HCV tested, thus indicating that they were directed against conserved epitopes. All antibodies neutralized the homologous strain and different patterns of the other HCV tested. Radioimmunoprecipitation analysis showed that the monoclonal antibodies were directed against a doublet of 56-60 kDa, presumably representing the major envelope glycoprotein of HCV. The results of reciprocal antibody blocking assays allowed the mapping of two distinct conserved antigenic domains on this protein.


pmid: 2822746
title: Comparison of methods for concentration and purification of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The NADL strain of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was concentrated by hollow fiber ultrafiltration or polyethylene glycol and purified by centrifugation through sucrose or potassium tartrate gradients. The protein content of polyethylene glycol concentrates was much lower than that of ultrafiltration concentrates. Conversely, recoveries of infectivity were greater using polyethylene glycol (100%) as compared to ultrafiltration (50%). Sucrose or potassium tartrate density gradients appeared comparable in purification of BVD virus. Peak infectivity fractions in both gradients corresponded quite well, having densities of 1.12-1.14 g/cm3, and showed a 150-fold reduction of protein when compared to crude viral supernate. Further examination by negative stain electron microscopy revealed integral pleomorphic, roughly spherical particles in both purified virus preparations. Small knob-like projections could be seen on viral particles.


pmid: 23684846
title: Numerical taxonomy of the genus Pestivirus: new software for genotyping based on the palindromic nucleotide substitutions method
abstract: The genus Pestivirus from the family Flaviviridae is represented by four established species; Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1); Bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 (BVDV-2); Border disease virus (BDV); and Classical swine fever virus (CSFV); as well a tentative species from a Giraffe. The palindromic nucleotide substitutions (PNS) in the 5' untranslated region (UTR) of Pestivirus RNA has been described as a new, simple and practical method for genotyping. New software is described, also named PNS, that was prepared specifically for this PNS genotyping procedure. Pestivirus identification using PNS was evaluated on five hundred and forty-three sequences at genus, species and genotype level using this software. The software is freely available at www.pns-software.com.


pmid: 18295788
title: Transplacental infection with non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhoea virus types 1b and 2: viral spread and molecular neuropathology
abstract: Infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) represents a reproducible natural animal model in which to study mechanisms of transplacental viral infection. In the present study, BVDV-seronegative heifers were challenged intranasally with non-cytopathic BVDV of genotype 1b or 2. Fetuses were retrieved by caesarean section 7-114 days post-challenge of the dam and subjected to virological, histopathological and immunohistochemistry(IHC) studies. Gross and histopathological changes were only seen in fetuses infected at gestational age 75-85 days and retrieved at gestational age 190 days. Viral antigen could be detected in most tissues from 14 days post-infection, but the primary target organs for histopathological changes were brain, liver and spleen. In the brain, microscopical changes included leucomalacia and macrophage infiltration of meninges and neuropil. Viral antigen was detected in neurons, oligodendrocyte precursors and infiltrating macrophages. IHC revealed normal to slightly increased expression of hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) in the infected fetuses, with evidence of neuronal apoptosis and induction of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and phospho-p38alpha mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). These findings suggest that hypoxia may play only a limited role in the pathogenesis of the neural lesions. By contrast, virus-induced cytokine cascades, as part of the fetal innate immune response, and apoptosis of neurons and glial precursor cells may be central to the development of lesions.


pmid: 27482690
title: Decreasing the frequency and rate of wet brewers grains supplementation did not impact growth but reduced humoral immune response of preconditioning beef heifers
abstract: This study evaluated growth and measurements of innate and humoral immunity of preconditioning beef heifers supplemented with wet brewers grains (WBG) at 2 supplementation rates and frequencies. At 14 d after weaning (d 0), Angus heifers ( = 36; 213 ± 2 kg BW and 254 ± 7 d of age) were stratified by BW and age and randomly assigned to 1 of 12 drylot pens (3 heifers/pen). Treatments were randomly assigned to pens, in a 2 × 2 factorial design, and consisted of heifers provided ground tall fescue hay ad libitum (55% TDN and 12% CP of DM) and supplemented with WBG (75% TDN and 36% CP of DM) either daily (7X) or 3 times weekly (3X; Monday, Wednesday, and Friday) at 0.5 or 1.0% of BW (DM basis) for 42 d. Heifers were vaccinated against infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), Mannheimia haemolytica, and Clostridium on d 14 and 28. Individual BW was measured before feeding on d 0 and 42 following 12 h of feed and water withdrawal. Blood samples were collected via jugular venipuncture 4 h after WBG supplementation on d 14, 15, 16, 17, 21, 28, 29, 30, 31, 35, and 42. Heifers fed WBG 3X had less hay DMI (2.6 ± 0.16 vs. 3.2 ± 0.16 kg/d; < 0.0001) but greater total DMI (5.6 ± 0.16 vs. 3.8 ± 0.16 kg/d; < 0.0001) than 7X heifers on days that all heifers received WBG supplementation. However, overall hay and total DMI was not affected ( ≥ 0.40) by supplementation frequency. Therefore, ADG, BW, and G:F from d 0 to 42 did not differ among treatments ( ≥ 0.29). Plasma concentrations of haptoglobin on d 15 and cortisol on d 14 were greater for 3X heifers vs. 7X heifers ( ≤ 0.04). Heifers fed WBG at 0.5% of BW tended to have greater plasma cortisol concentrations on d 15, 17, and 35 ( ≤ 0.09) than heifers fed at 1.0% of BW. Serum BVDV-1a titers were greater ( = 0.04) for 7X heifers vs. 3X heifers on d 42 (4.2 ± 0.28 vs. 3.3 ± 0.28 log), whereas serum titers against BVDV-2 and IBR were greater for heifers fed WBG at 1.0% of BW vs. heifers fed WBG at 0.5% of BW (7.6 vs. 6.7 and 3.3 vs. 2.8 ± 0.19 log, respectively). In summary, decreasing WBG supplementation frequency (7 vs. 3 times weekly) or rate (1.0 vs. 0.5% of BW) for recently weaned beef heifers did not affect growth but decreased vaccine-induced antibody production against pathogens associated with bovine respiratory disease during a 42-d preconditioning period.


pmid: 17997169
title: Imidazo[4,5-c]pyridines inhibit the in vitro replication of the classical swine fever virus and target the viral polymerase
abstract: Selective inhibitors of the replication of the classical swine fever virus (CSFV) may have the potential to control the spread of the infection in an epidemic situation. We here report that 5-[(4-bromophenyl)methyl]-2-phenyl-5H-imidazo[4,5-c]pyridine (BPIP) is a highly potent inhibitor of the in vitro replication of CSFV. The compound resulted in a dose-dependent antiviral effect in PK(15) cells with a 50% effective concentration (EC(50)) for the inhibition of CSFV Alfort(187) (subgroup 1.1) of 1.6+/-0.4 microM and for CSFV Wingene (subgroup 2.3) 0.8+/-0.2 microM. Drug-resistant virus was selected by serial passage of the virus in increasing drug-concentration. The BPIP-resistant virus (EC(50): 24+/-4.0 microM) proved cross-resistant with VP32947 [3-[((2-dipropylamino)ethyl)thio]-5H-1,2,4-triazino[5,6-b]indole], an unrelated earlier reported selective inhibitor of pestivirus replication. BPIP-resistant CSFV carried a T259S mutation in NS5B, encoding the RNA-dependent RNA-polymerase (RdRp). This mutation is located near F224, a residue known to play a crucial role in the antiviral activity of BPIP against bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). The T259S mutation was introduced in a computational model of the BVDV RdRp. Molecular docking of BPIP in the BVDV polymerase suggests that T259S may have a negative impact on the stacking interaction between the imidazo[4,5-c]pyridine ring system of BPIP and F224.


pmid: 16352539
title: A novel, highly selective inhibitor of pestivirus replication that targets the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase
abstract: We report on the highly potent and selective antipestivirus activity of 5-[(4-bromophenyl)methyl]-2-phenyl-5H-imidazo[4,5-c]pyridine (BPIP). The 50% effective concentration (EC50) for inhibition of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)-induced cytopathic effect formation was 0.04 +/- 0.01 microM. Comparable reduction of viral RNA synthesis (EC50 = 0.12 +/- 0.02 microM) and production of infectious virus (EC50= 0.074 +/- 0.003 microM) were observed. The selectivity index (ratio of 50% cytostatic concentration/EC50) of BPIP was approximately 2,000. BPIP was inactive against the hepatitis C virus subgenomic replicon and yellow fever virus but demonstrated weak activity against GB virus. Drug-resistant mutants were at least 300-fold less susceptible to BPIP than wild-type virus; showed cross-resistance to N-propyl-N-[2-(2H-1,2,4-triazino[5,6-b]indol-3-ylthio)ethyl]-1-propanamine (VP32947), and carried the F224S mutation in the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp). When the F224S mutation was introduced into an infectious clone, the drug-resistant phenotype was obtained. BPIP did not inhibit the in vitro activity of recombinant BVDV RdRp, but did inhibit the activity of replication complexes (RCs). Computational docking revealed that F224 is located at the top of the finger domain of the polymerase. Docking of BPIP in the crystal structure of the BVDV RdRp revealed aromatic ring stacking, some hydrophobic contacts, and a hydrogen bond. Since two structurally unrelated compounds, i.e., BPIP and VP32947, target the same region of the BVDV RdRp, this position may be expected to be critical in the functioning of the polymerase or assembly of the RC. The potential of BPIP for the treatment of pestivirus and hepacivirus infections is discussed.


pmid: 8031236
title: Pestiviruses isolated from pigs, cattle and sheep can be allocated into at least three genogroups using polymerase chain reaction and restriction endonuclease analysis
abstract: A polymerase chain reaction-based assay capable of detecting a broad range of pestiviruses from pigs, cattle, or sheep was developed. Of six sets of primers selected from different parts of the pestivirus genome, the best results were provided by a pair from the highly conserved 5' non-coding region which gave amplification with all 129 isolates tested. This panel consisted of 33 isolates from pigs, 79 from cattle, and 17 from sheep. Differentiation between the viruses was achieved by cutting the PCR-amplified products with the restriction endonucleases AvaI and Bg1I. Using this procedure it was possible to distinguish at least 3 genogroups; group 1 (HCV) contained 32 of the pig isolates, group II (BVDV) contained all the cattle isolates tested plus 6 sheep isolates and group III (BDV) contained 11 sheep isolates and 1 pig isolate.


pmid: 26526150
title: Experimental infection with cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus in mice induces megakaryopoiesis in the spleen and bone marrow
abstract: Here, we infected mice with cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (cp BVDV1) by oral inoculation and investigated the effects of infection by histopathological, immunohistochemical (IHC), hematological methods. Twelve mice were infected, and samples were obtained at day 2, 5, and 9 postinfection (pi). Most of the infected mice exhibited clinical signs of illness such as reduced movement, crouching, loose feces, loss of appetite, and reduced water intake. Blood samples from six mice were positive for BVDV based on reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Blood analysis also revealed thrombocytopenia and lymphopenia. Viral antigens were detected in the spleen (12/12), bone marrow (12/12), and/or mesenteric lymph nodes (4/12) of all infected mice by IHC analysis. The spleens showed significant histopathological changes including (i) substantially increased numbers of megakaryocytes, (ii) lymphocyte depletion, and (iii) hemorrhages. The bone marrow also had an increased number of megakaryocytes, although this increase was not as strong as it was in the spleen. Severe lymphoid depletion was observed in the mesenteric lymph nodes. Viral infections were present in the lymphocytes but not detected in megakaryocytes of the spleen, bone marrow, or mesenteric lymph nodes. These results suggest that the increased numbers of megakaryocytes may be a direct result of BVDV infection. BVDV infection in mice following oral inoculation of cp BVDV1 leads to megakaryopoiesis in the spleen and bone marrow to replenish the platelets.


pmid: 22402180
title: An economic model to evaluate the mitigation programme for bovine viral diarrhoea in Switzerland
abstract: Economic analyses are indispensable as sources of information to help policy makers make decisions about mitigation resource use. The aim of this study was to conduct an economic evaluation of the Swiss national mitigation programme for bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), which was implemented in 2008 and concludes in 2017. The eradication phase of the mitigation programme comprised testing and slaughtering of all persistently infected (PI) animals found. First, the whole population was antigen tested and all PI cattle removed. Since October 2008, all newborn calves have been subject to antigen testing to identify and slaughter PI calves. All mothers of PI calves were retested and slaughtered if the test was positive. Antigen testing in calves and elimination of virus-carriers was envisaged to be conducted until the end of 2011. Subsequently, a surveillance programme will document disease freedom or detect disease if it recurs. Four alternative surveillance strategies based on antibody testing in blood from newborn calves and/or milk from primiparous cows were proposed by Federal Veterinary Office servants in charge of the BVDV mitigation programme. A simple economic spreadsheet model was developed to estimate and compare the costs and benefits of the BVDV mitigation programme. In an independent project, the impact of the mitigation programme on the disease dynamics in the population was simulated using a stochastic compartment model. Mitigation costs accrued from materials, labour, and processes such as handling and testing samples, and recording results. Benefits were disease costs avoided by having the mitigation programme in place compared to a baseline of endemic disease equilibrium. Cumulative eradication costs and benefits were estimated to determine the break-even point for the eradication component of the programme. The margin over eradication cost therefore equalled the maximum expenditure potentially available for surveillance without the net benefit from the mitigation programme overall becoming zero. Costs of the four surveillance strategies and the net benefit of the mitigation programme were estimated. Simulations were run for the years 2008-2017 with 20,000 iterations in @Risk for Excel. The mean baseline disease costs were estimated to be 16.04 m CHF (1 Swiss Franc, CHF=0.73 € at the time of analysis) (90% central range, CR: 14.71-17.39 m CHF) in 2008 and 14.89 m CHF (90% CR: 13.72-16.08 m CHF) in 2009. The break-even point was estimated to be reached in 2012 and the margin over eradication cost 63.15m CHF (90% CR: 53.72-72.82 m CHF). The discounted cost for each surveillance strategy was found to be smaller than the margin, so the mitigation programme overall is expected to have a positive net economic benefit irrespective of the strategy adopted. For economic efficiency, the least cost surveillance alternative must be selected.


pmid: 16248053
title: Synthesis and in vitro anti-HCV activity of beta-D- and 1-2'-deoxy-2'-fluororibonucleosides
abstract: Based on the discovery of beta-D-2'-deoxy-2'-fluorocytidine as a potent anti-hepatitis C virus (HCV) agent, a series of beta-D- and L-2'-deoxy-2'-fluoroibonucleosides with modifications at 5 and/or 4 positions were synthesized and evaluated for their in vitro activity against HCV and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). The introduction of the 2'-fluoro group was achieved by either fluorination of 2,2'-anhydronucleosides with hydrogen fluoride-pyridine or potassium fluoride, or a fluorination of arabinonucleosides with DAST. Among the 27 analogues synthesized, only the 5-fluoro compounds, namely beta-D-2'-deoxy-2',5-difluorocytidine (5), had anti-HCV activity in the subgenomic HCV replicon cell line, and inhibitory activity against ribosomal RNA. As beta-D-N4-hydroxycytidine (NHC) had previously shown potent anti-HCV activity, the two functionalities of the N4-hydroxyl and the 2'-fluoro were combined into one molecule, yielding beta-D-2'-deoxy-2'-fluoro-N4-hydroxycytidine (12). However, this nucleoside showed neither anti-HCV activity nor toxicity. All the L-forms of the analogues were devoid of anti-HCV activity. None of the compounds showed anti-BVDV activity, suggesting that the BVDV system cannot reliably predict anti-HCV activity in vitro.


pmid: 26526150
title: Experimental infection with cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus in mice induces megakaryopoiesis in the spleen and bone marrow
abstract: Here, we infected mice with cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (cp BVDV1) by oral inoculation and investigated the effects of infection by histopathological, immunohistochemical (IHC), hematological methods. Twelve mice were infected, and samples were obtained at day 2, 5, and 9 postinfection (pi). Most of the infected mice exhibited clinical signs of illness such as reduced movement, crouching, loose feces, loss of appetite, and reduced water intake. Blood samples from six mice were positive for BVDV based on reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Blood analysis also revealed thrombocytopenia and lymphopenia. Viral antigens were detected in the spleen (12/12), bone marrow (12/12), and/or mesenteric lymph nodes (4/12) of all infected mice by IHC analysis. The spleens showed significant histopathological changes including (i) substantially increased numbers of megakaryocytes, (ii) lymphocyte depletion, and (iii) hemorrhages. The bone marrow also had an increased number of megakaryocytes, although this increase was not as strong as it was in the spleen. Severe lymphoid depletion was observed in the mesenteric lymph nodes. Viral infections were present in the lymphocytes but not detected in megakaryocytes of the spleen, bone marrow, or mesenteric lymph nodes. These results suggest that the increased numbers of megakaryocytes may be a direct result of BVDV infection. BVDV infection in mice following oral inoculation of cp BVDV1 leads to megakaryopoiesis in the spleen and bone marrow to replenish the platelets.


pmid: 10788310
title: Viral contamination of embryos cryopreserved in liquid nitrogen
abstract: Despite the worldwide application of embryo-freezing technology as the means of preserving germplasm of mammalian species, there is no information available on the possible transmission of infectious agents to cryopreserved embryos via contaminated liquid nitrogen (LN). Recently, it has been reported that new methods of cryopreservation which employ ultrarapid freezing or vitrification require direct contact between the freezing medium containing oocytes or embryos and liquid phase nitrogen (LPN). As models for human and animal viral pathogens three bovine viruses, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV), and bovine immunodeficiency virus (BIV), were employed to study the potential for their transmission by experimentally contaminated LN to embryos frozen and stored in open freezing containers. Bovine embryos in a mixture of 20% ethylene glycol, 20% ME(2)SO, and 0.6% sucrose were vitrified in either unsealed standard 0.25 ml or modified open pulled straws or in plastic cryovials and then plunged into contaminated LPN. After 3-5 weeks of storage in LN, embryos were thawed and sequentially washed and only those with intact ZP were pooled together and tested in batches of three for viral contamination. From this pool of 83 batches, 13 of 61 (21.3%) batches exposed to BVDV and BHV-1 tested positive for viral association while all 22 batches exposed to BIV in unsealed containers tested negative. All control embryos vitrified in sealed cryovials and straws were free from viral contamination.


pmid: 10687393
title: Strategies for evaluation of enveloped virus inactivation in red cell concentrates using hypericin
abstract: Photodynamically induced virus inactivation appears promising in preventing transmission of enveloped virus infections in transfusible blood products. The potential for utilizing hypericin as a photosensitizer to inactivate key enveloped viruses in packed red cell concentrates (PRC) was evaluated. In addition to inactivating effectively > or = 10(6) TCID50 of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), inactivation of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in PRC was used as a model for hepatitis C virus to overcome the deficiency in reliable experimental systems for hepatitis C virus (HCV) inactivation. BVDV was two orders of magnitude more sensitive to inactivation by hypericin than HIV. As part of the virucidal efficacy analyses, the effects of photosensitization on hemopoietic cell lines carrying quiescent integrated HIV provirus were studied as models for evaluating virus inactivation in latently infected cells. Phorbol ester-induced virus production by these cells was effectively prevented by photosensitization with hypericin. A refinement of the illumination conditions, incorporating a monochromatic sodium light source with an emission spectrum coinciding with the absorption peak of hypericin, was highly virucidal, however, caused unacceptable levels of hemolysis. Red blood cells could be protected from phototoxic cellular damage by complexing hypericin with human serum albumin (albumin-hypericin), but the decrease in hemolysis was at the expense of virucidal efficacy. Thus, excitation of hypericin with a fluorescent source appears to be useful potentially for virus inactivation in PRC.


pmid: 10642588
title: Structural aspects of the zona pellucida of in vitro-produced bovine embryos: a scanning electron and confocal laser scanning microscopic study
abstract: Structural aspects of the bovine zona pellucida (ZP) of in vitro-matured (IVM) oocytes and in vitro-produced (IVP) embryos were studied in two experiments to find a tentative explanation for the zona's barrier function against viral infection. In Experiment 1, the ultrastructure of the outer ZP surface was studied. The diameter (nm) and the number of the outer pores within an area of 5000 microm(2) of 10 IVM oocytes, 10 zygotes, 10 8-cell-stage embryos, and 10 morulae were evaluated by scanning electron microscopy. In oocytes and morulae, the ZP surface showed a rough and spongy appearance with numerous pores. In zygotes, the ZP surface was found to have a smooth, melted appearance with only a few pores. In 8-cell-stage embryos, both surface patterns were found. The mean number (per 5000 microm(2)) and the mean diameter of the outer pores were different between the four stages of development (P < 0.001): 1511 pores in oocytes, 1187 in zygotes, 1658 in 8-cell-stage embryos, and 3259 in morulae, with mean diameters of 182, 223, 203, and 155 nm, respectively. In Experiment 2, the continuity of the meshes (network of pores) towards the embryonic cells was examined by confocal laser scanning microscopy. Therefore, the passage through and the location in the ZP of fluorescent microspheres, with similar dimensions as bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV, 40-50 nm) and bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1; 180-200 nm), were evaluated. For all stages, the smallest beads were detected halfway through the thickness of the ZP, whereas the beads with a size of 200 nm were found only within the outer-fourth part of the ZP. It can be concluded that the intact ZP of bovine IVM oocytes and IVP embryos are constructed in such a way that BVDV and BHV-1 should not be able to traverse the ZP and reach the embryonic cells. However, the risk exists that viral particles can be trapped in the outer layers of the ZP.


pmid: 9188600
title: Bovine viral diarrhea virus NS3 serine proteinase: polyprotein cleavage sites, cofactor requirements, and molecular model of an enzyme essential for pestivirus replication
abstract: Members of the Flaviviridae encode a serine proteinase termed NS3 that is responsible for processing at several sites in the viral polyproteins. In this report, we show that the NS3 proteinase of the pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) (NADL strain) is required for processing at nonstructural (NS) protein sites 3/4A, 4A/4B, 4B/5A, and 5A/5B but not for cleavage at the junction between NS2 and NS3. Cleavage sites of the proteinase were determined by amino-terminal sequence analysis of the NS4A, NS4B, NS5A, and NS5B proteins. A conserved leucine residue is found at the P1 position of all four cleavage sites, followed by either serine (3/4A, 4B/5A, and 5A/5B sites) or alanine (4A/4B site) at the P1' position. Consistent with this cleavage site preference, a structural model of the pestivirus NS3 proteinase predicts a highly hydrophobic P1 specificity pocket. trans-Processing experiments implicate the 64-residue NS4A protein as an NS3 proteinase cofactor required for cleavage at the 4B/5A and 5A/5B sites. Finally, using a full-length functional BVDV cDNA clone, we demonstrate that a catalytically active NS3 serine proteinase is essential for pestivirus replication.


pmid: 23582447
title: Novel imino sugar α-glucosidase inhibitors as antiviral compounds
abstract: Deoxynojirimycin (DNJ) based imino sugars display antiviral activity in the tissue culture surrogate model of Hepatitis C (HCV), bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), mediated by inhibition of ER α-glucosidases. Here, the antiviral activities of neoglycoconjugates derived from deoxynojirimycin, and a novel compound derived from deoxygalactonojirimycin, by click chemistry with functionalised adamantanes are presented. Their antiviral potency, in terms of both viral infectivity and virion secretion, with respect to their effect on α-glucosidase inhibition, are reported. The distinct correlation between the ability of long alkyl chain derivatives to inhibit ER α-glucosidases and their anti-viral effect is demonstrated. Increasing alkyl linker length between DNJ and triazole groups increases α-glucosidase inhibition and reduces the production of viral progeny RNA and the maturation of the envelope polypeptide. Disruption to viral glycoprotein processing, with increased glucosylation on BVDV E2 species, is representative of α-glucosidase inhibition, whilst derivatives with longer alkyl linkers also show a further decrease in infectivity of secreted virions, an effect proposed to be distinct from α-glucosidase inhibition.


pmid: 22047799
title: Quinoline tricyclic derivatives. Design, synthesis and evaluation of the antiviral activity of three new classes of RNA-dependent RNA polymerase inhibitors
abstract: In this study three new classes of linear N-tricyclic compounds, derived by condensation of the quinoline nucleus with 1,2,3-triazole, imidazole or pyrazine, were synthesized, obtaining triazolo[4,5-g]quinolines, imidazo[4,5-g]quinolines and pyrido[2,3-g]quinoxalines, respectively. Title compounds were tested in cell-based assays for cytotoxicity and antiviral activity against RNA viruses representative of the three genera of the Flaviviridae family, that is BVDV (Pestivirus), YFV (Flavivirus) and HCV (Hepacivirus). Quinoline derivatives were also tested against representatives of other RNA virus families containing single-stranded, either positive-sense (ssRNA(+)) or negative-sense (RNA(-)), and double-stranded genomes (dsRNA), as well as against representatives of two DNA virus families. Some quinolines showed moderate, although selective activity against CVB-5, Reo-1 and RSV. However, derivatives belonging to all classes showed activity against BVDV. Among the most potent were the bis-triazoloquinoline 1m, the imidazoquinolines 2e and 2h, and the pyridoquinoxalines 4h, 4j and 5n (EC(50) range 1-5 μM). When tested in a replicon assay, compound 2h was the sole derivative to also display anti-HCV activity (EC(50)=3.1 μM). In enzyme assays, 1m, 2h, 5m and 5n proved to be potent inhibitors of the BVDV RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), while only 2h also inhibited the recombinant HCV enzyme.


pmid: 21062425
title: Study of the kinetics of antibodies titres against viral pathogens and detection of rotavirus and parainfluenza 3 infections in captive crias of guanacos (Lama guanicoe)
abstract: A longitudinal study was conducted to investigate the presence of antibodies (Ab) to Rotavirus (RV), Parainfluenza-3 virus (PI-3), Bovine Herpesvirus-1 (BoHV-1), Bovine Viral Diarrhoea virus (BVDV-1) and Bluetongue virus (BTV) in eleven guanaco's crias (chulengos) relocated from Rio Negro to Buenos Aires Province (Argentina) and reared in captivity for a year in an experimental field. Serum samples were collected periodically to detect the evidence of viral infections. Faecal samples were collected to investigate RV shedding. We detected the evidence of Ab to RV from the beginning of the experience, suggesting the presence of maternal Ab against the virus. RV infection was detected in seven of the eleven chulengos, by seroconversion (4), virus shedding in stools (1) or both (2). In all cases, the RV strain was typed as [P1]G8, the same G/P type combination detected in captive chulengos with acute diarrhoea sampled in Rio Negro, in 2001. In contrast, we could not detect antibodies against PI-3, BoHV-1, BVDV or BT in any of initial samples. No Abs against BoHV-1, BVDV or BTV were detected in the chulengos throughout the study. However, all the chulengos became asymptomatically seropositive to PI-3 by the 7 month after arrival. This study suggest that wild-born guanacos raised in captivity can be relatively susceptible to common livestock viral infections, such as RV and PI-3, which are easily spread among chulengos.


pmid: 19781821
title: Synthesis, pharmacological and antiviral activity of 1,3-thiazepine derivatives
abstract: The preparation of new fourteen thiourea and fourteen product of their condensation with 1,4-dibromobutane, viz. 1,3-thiazepine derivatives, of 10-isopropyl-8-methyl-4-aza-tricyclo[5.2.2.0(2,6)]undec-8-ene-3,5-dione and 1-isopropyl-7-methyl-4-aza-tricyclo[5.2.2.0(2,6)]undec-8-ene-3,5-dione is described. Elemental analysis, MS and (1)H NMR spectra confirmed the identity of the products. The molecular structure of linear disubstituted thiourea derivative and its cyclization product was determined by an X-ray crystal structure analysis. Two of new obtained compounds (6b' and 7a') were tested for their pharmacological activity on animal central nervous system (CNS) in behavioral animal tests. With relatively low acute toxicity (LD(50) lower than 2000 mg kg(-1) i.p.) they exhibited significant influence on spontaneous locomotor activity and body temperature. Additionally, compounds reduced number of the "head twitch" episodes after 5-hydroksytryptophan (5-HTP) administration. New compounds were evaluated in vitro against representatives of different virus classes, such as a HIV-1 (Retrovirus), a HBV (Hepadnavirus) and the single-stranded RNA(+) viruses Yellow fever virus (YFV) and Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), both belonging to Flaviridae. Three of new obtained compounds showed a modest activity against HIV-1 wt(IIIB), BVDV and YFV.


pmid: 16854490
title: Sequencing and comparative analysis of a pig bovine viral diarrhea virus genome
abstract: In present study, we report the first complete genomic sequence of pig bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) virus, that of strain ZM-95, which is 12,220 nucleotides long and contains short 5' and 3' non-coding regions and one open reading frame encoding a large polyprotein with 28 potential N-glycosylation sites (Asn-X-Ser or Asn-X-Thr). Within the non-structural protein encoding region, no foreign nucleotide insertions was found as those usually observed for cytopathogenic BVDV-1, but close to the 3'-terminal of the capsid protein (1119-1124bp) it contains a short insertion of a six nucleotide sequence (CTCACA). Three hypervariable regions were identified in the polyprotein-encoding region, with one of them comprising a sequence motif encoding a unique five amino acid peptide HYKKK in glycoprotein E2 gene. The genomic comparison and phylogenetic analyses showed that ZM-95 should be classified into BVDV-1, but was genetically divergent from other pestiviruses sequenced to date since its highest genetic similarity was only 76.6% (with SD-1), therefore, placed as a novel subgroup of BVDV-1.


pmid: 15900676
title: [Analysis of bulk milk samples using polymerase chain reaction: an additional tool for bovine viral diarrhea monitoring]
abstract: Programmes for the eradication and control of infections with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) concentrate on the identification and elimination of persistently infected (PI) animals. The identification of these animals is mainly based on the detection of viral antigen using ELISA techniques. Protocols detecting viral nucleic acid using RT-PCR have been described recently. Due to high costs the German model recommends screening of animals of 9 up to 36 months of age. Screening of bulk milk samples using RT-PCR technology would allow a system independent of age. The aim of the present study was to test whether bulk milk samples (1433 including max. 50 animals each) collected in four counties of Lower Saxony are suitable for a complementary identification of PI animals via RT-PCR. Thirty-one bulk milk samples derived from 27 dairy herds were BVDV positive, corresponding to 2.3 % of the herds analysed in this study. Two samples first scored doubtful. Follow up tests revealed lactating PI animals in most cases (18). In other cases the epidemiological status of the herd, i.e. high sero-prevalence and/or presence of PI animals among non-lactating cattle, suggested a transient infection detected in the first bulk milk sample. These results demonstrate that monitoring of lactating cattle of any age using RT-PCR is a very sensitive, economically effective additional method for the identification of PI animals.


pmid: 26630001
title: Silica Vesicle Nanovaccine Formulations Stimulate Long-Term Immune Responses to the Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus E2 Protein
abstract: Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) is one of the most serious pathogen, which causes tremendous economic loss to the cattle industry worldwide, meriting the development of improved subunit vaccines. Structural glycoprotein E2 is reported to be a major immunogenic determinant of BVDV virion. We have developed a novel hollow silica vesicles (SV) based platform to administer BVDV-1 Escherichia coli-expressed optimised E2 (oE2) antigen as a nanovaccine formulation. The SV-140 vesicles (diameter 50 nm, wall thickness 6 nm, perforated by pores of entrance size 16 nm and total pore volume of 0.934 cm3 g(-1)) have proven to be ideal candidates to load oE2 antigen and generate immune response. The current study for the first time demonstrates the ability of freeze-dried (FD) as well as non-FD oE2/SV140 nanovaccine formulation to induce long-term balanced antibody and cell mediated memory responses for at least 6 months with a shortened dosing regimen of two doses in small animal model. The in vivo ability of oE2 (100 μg)/SV-140 (500 μg) and FD oE2 (100 μg)/SV-140 (500 μg) to induce long-term immunity was compared to immunisation with oE2 (100 μg) together with the conventional adjuvant Quil-A from the Quillaja saponira (10 μg) in mice. The oE2/SV-140 as well as the FD oE2/SV-140 nanovaccine generated oE2-specific antibody and cell mediated responses for up to six months post the final second immunisation. Significantly, the cell-mediated responses were consistently high in mice immunised with oE2/SV-140 (1,500 SFU/million cells) at the six-month time point. Histopathology studies showed no morphological changes at the site of injection or in the different organs harvested from the mice immunised with 500 μg SV-140 nanovaccine compared to the unimmunised control. The platform has the potential for developing single dose vaccines without the requirement of cold chain storage for veterinary and human applications.


pmid: 25109547
title: High frequency of bovine viral diarrhea virus type 2 in Southern Brazil
abstract: Ruminant pestiviruses can infect cattle populations worldwide and cause significant economic losses due to their impact on productivity and health. Knowledge of pestivirus diversity is important for control programs and vaccine development and for determining probable sources of infection. In this paper, we describe a search for ruminant pestiviruses with RT-PCR in sera of 9078 calves from 6 to 12 months of age. The calves were first analyzed in pools and then analyzed individually. Thirty-three RT-PCR positive animals were detected (0.36%) from 6.9% (24) of the 346 herds. The sequencing analysis of the 5' non-coding region and N terminal autoprotease showed the presence of BVDV-1a (15 isolates), -1b (3), -1d (1) and -2b (14), with a higher frequency (42.4%) of BVDV-2 in comparison with other countries. The presence of sheep was significantly associated with BVDV infection. Our results also suggested that a BVDV control program based only on the investigation of cattle would not be successful, especially in regions with farms harboring multiple animal species. This study may also serve as a reference for future control programs in Southern Brazil because it reports the prevalence of cattle with active infections and the genetic background of the circulating strains.


pmid: 29426407
title: Seroprevalence and risk factors for selected respiratory and reproductive tract pathogen exposure in European bison (Bison bonasus) in Poland
abstract: After the complete extinction from the wild of European bison (Bison bonasus) at the beginning of the twentieth century, the worldwide species population was restored to approximately 5500 individuals, with the species however remaining endangered. Despite numerous studies on the ecology and genetics of European bison, the threats of infectious diseases have been largely unexamined. The aim of this study was to screen the exposure of the world's largest population of European bison to the pathogens, which may influence the condition and development of the endangered species. A total of 240 free-ranging and captive European bison from eight main Polish populations sampled were tested for the presence of specific antibodies against ten different viruses, bacteria or protozoan. The samples were collected from chemically immobilized, selectively culled or found dead animals. Based on serology, the exposure to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BoHV-1), Mycoplasma and Brucella spp. was determined as rather accidental. Using gamma-interferon assay followed by Mycobacterium tuberculosis subs. caprae detection in tissues, diagnosis of bovine tuberculosis was made for 6 out of 78 (7.7%) bison from one captive herd. The highest seroprevalence was found for bovine adenovirus type 3 (BAdV-3) -60.2% and bovine parainfluenza type 3 (PIV-3) -34.0%, while the antibodies against bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), Toxoplasma gondii and Leptospira spp. were found in 10.4%, 10.4% and 8.7% of samples, respectively. In the multivariable statistical analysis using generalized linear mixed models (GLMMS), the risk factors for PIV-3 seropositivity included population type (free-living/captive), age and health status (apparently healthy/eliminated due to the poor condition). Higher risk of BAdV-3 seropositive result was observed in free-living female European bison. The high BAdV-3 and PIV-3 seroprevalences may suggest involvement of these pathogens in the most frequently observed respiratory disorders in European bison. Moreover, this is the first study demonstrating BAdV-3 exposure in the species.


pmid: 11417380
title: [Differential diagnosis of classical swine fever and border disease: seroepidemiological investigation of a pestivirus infection on a mixed sheep and swine farm]
abstract: During recent years neutralizing antibodies against Border Disease Virus (BDV) were found repeatedly in German pig herds. Consequently there was a demand for a differential diagnostic system. A permanent sheep cell line and BDV reference strain Moredun were chosen and were applied in a could be used case study. A pestivirus could be isolated from piglets on a mixed farm and was characterised as 'non-Classical Swine Fever' (CSF) by using monoclonal antibodies. Due to a CSF suspicion the pig herd was destroyed immediately. Serum samples of sheep from the same farm were used for further characterisation of the new virus isolate. A neutralization test of the sheep sera was performed against different pestiviruses and the new isolate. Neutralizing antibody titres against the new virus pig isolate were significantly higher than against all other pestiviruses. BDV strain Moredun recognised the antibodies clearly, whereas CSF viral strain Alfort 187 and several isolates of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) strains scored the lowest cross reaction.


pmid: 8580161
title: Comparison of detection methods for bovine viral diarrhea virus in bovine abortions and neonatal death
abstract: The objective of this study was to examine a monoclonal antibody-based immunohistochemical staining method for its efficacy in diagnosis of bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV)-induced abortion and neonatal calf death. This method was compared to viral isolation and immunofluorescence staining of frozen tissue sections. Tissues from 105 cases, 53 fetuses and 52 neonates, were tested by the 3 methods. There were significant numbers of both false negatives and false positives with the immunofluorescence method and significant numbers of false negatives with the viral isolation method. Of the methods tested, immunohistochemical staining using monoclonal antibody 15C5 performed best, differentiating 97% of positive and negative cases. These results indicated that immunohistochemical staining can be applied to improve the accuracy of BVDV diagnosis in cases of abortion and perinatal death.


pmid: 31845814
title: Virus Isoelectric Point Determination Using Single-Particle Chemical Force Microscopy
abstract: Virus colloidal behavior is governed by the interaction of the viral surface and the surrounding environment. One method to characterize the virus surface charge is the isoelectric point (pI). Traditional determination of virus pI has focused on the bulk characterization of a viral solution. However, virus capsids are extremely heterogeneous, and a single-particle method may give more information on the range of surface charge observed across a population. One method to measure the virus pI is chemical force microscopy (CFM). CFM is a single-particle technique that measures the adhesion force of a functionalized atomic force microscope (AFM) probe and, in this case, a virus covalently bound to a surface. Non-enveloped porcine parvovirus (PPV) and enveloped bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were used to demonstrate the use of CFM for viral particles with different surface properties. We have validated the CFM to determine the pI of PPV to be 4.8-5.1, which has a known pI value of 5.0 in the literature, and to predict the unknown pI of BVDV to be 4.3-4.5. Bulk measurements, ζ-potential, and aqueous two-phase system (ATPS) cross-partitioning methods were also used to validate the new CFM method for the virus pI. Most methods were in good agreement. CFM can detect the surface charge of viral capsids at a single-particle level and enable the comparison of surface charge between different types of viruses.


pmid: 15628806
title: Evaluation of a quadrivalent inactivated vaccine for the protection of cattle against diseases due to common viral infections
abstract: Efficacy of an inactivated quadrivalent vaccine containing infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR) virus, parainfluenza type 3 (PI3) virus, bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) was assessed in naive bovine calves to evaluate short-term (4-18 weeks) and long-term (24-38 weeks) protection following the basic intramuscular vaccination regime of 2 inoculations a month apart. Vaccination was staggered between the long-term and the short-term groups by about 5 months so that both groups, along with a matched group of 6 unvaccinated (control) calves, could be challenged at the same time. Sequential challenges at intervals of 3-8 weeks were done in the order: IBR virus (intranasally, IN), PI3 virus (IN and intratracheally, IT), pestiviruses (IN) and BRSV (IN and IT). The IBR virus challenge produced febrile rhinotracheitis (FRT) in control calves but both the severity and the duration of FRT was significantly reduced in both vaccinated groups. The amount and the duration of IBR virus shed by the vaccinated groups was significantly reduced compared to the control group. Although PI3 virus, pooled pestivirus and BRSV challenges did not result in a noteworthy disease, challenge virus shedding (amount and duration) from the upper (all 3 viruses) and the lower (BRSV) respiratory tracts was significantly reduced in vaccinated groups. After pestivirus challenge, sera and leukocytes from all control calves were infectious for 6-9 days whereas virus was recovered only from leukocytes in vaccinated calves and only for 1.6-2.7 days. Thus a standard course of the quadrivalent vaccine afforded a significant protection against IBR virus, PI3 virus, BVDV and BRSV for at least 6 months.


pmid: 15383680
title: Complex signals in the genomic 3' nontranslated region of bovine viral diarrhea virus coordinate translation and replication of the viral RNA
abstract: The genomes of positive-strand RNA viruses strongly resemble cellular mRNAs. However, besides operating as a messenger to generate the virus-encoded proteins, the viral RNA serves also as a template during replication. A central issue of the viral life cycle, the coordination of protein and RNA synthesis, is yet poorly understood. Examining bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), we report here on the role of the variable 3'V portion of the viral 3' nontranslated region (3'NTR). Genetic studies and structure probing revealed that 3'V represents a complex RNA motif that is composed of synergistically acting sequence and structure elements. Correct formation of the 3'V motif was shown to be an important determinant of the viral RNA replication process. Most interestingly, we found that a proper conformation of 3'V is required for accurate termination of translation at the stop-codon of the viral open reading frame and that efficient termination of translation is essential for efficient replication of the viral RNA. Within the viral 3'NTR, the complex 3'V motif constitutes also the binding site of recently characterized cellular host factors, the so-called NFAR proteins. Considering that the NFAR proteins associate also with the 5'NTR of the BVDV genome, we propose a model where the viral 3'NTR has a bipartite functional organization: The conserved 3' portion (3'C) is part of the nascent replication complex; the variable 5' portion (3'V) is involved in the coordination of the viral translation and replication. Our data suggest the accuracy of translation termination as a sophisticated device determining viral adaptation to the host.


pmid: 9302195
title: Comparison of two different methods for inactivation of viruses in serum
abstract: In order to compare protocols for inactivation of viruses potentially present in biological specimens, three different model viruses were treated in bovine serum by two different inactivation methods: samples were subjected either to chemical inactivation with ethylenimine (El) at concentrations of 5 and 10 mM at 37 degrees C for periods up to 72 h or to electron-beam irradiation in frozen and liquid form with doses varying between 11 and 46 kGy. The chemical inactivation resulted in nonlinear tailing curves in a semilogarithmic plot of virus titer versus inactivation time showing non-first-order kinetics with respect to virus titer. The time for inactivation of 7 log10 units of porcine parvovirus (PPV) was about 24 h for both El concentrations, whereas 5 log10 units of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was inactivated in 2 h for both El concentrations and 6 log10 units of porcine enterovirus (PEV) was inactivated within 3 h. The inactivation with electron-beam irradiation resulted in almost linear curves in a semilogarithmic plot of virus titer versus irradiation dose, reflecting a first-order inactivation. The rate of inactivation was almost twice as fast in the liquid samples compared to the rate in frozen ones, giving values of the doses needed to reduce virus infectivity 1 log10 unit for inactivation of PPV of 11.8 and 7.7 kGy for frozen and liquid samples, respectively, whereas the corresponding values for BVDV were 4.9 and 2.5 kGy, respectively, and those for PEV were 6.4 and 4.4 kGy, respectively. The nonlinear inactivation with El makes it impossible to extrapolate the curves beyond the virus detection limit and thereby predict the necessary time for complete inactivation, i.e., to a level beyond the detection limit, of virus in a given sample. The first-order inactivation obtained with electron-beam irradiation makes such a prediction possible and justifiable. The two methods are discussed with respect to their different kinetics and applicability under different circumstances and criteria for inactivation, and considerations for choice of method are discussed.


pmid: 7483787
title: Antibody responses by cattle after vaccination with commercial viral vaccines containing bovine herpesvirus-1, bovine viral diarrhea virus, parainfluenza-3 virus, and bovine respiratory syncytial virus immunogens and subsequent revaccination at day 140
abstract: Calves were vaccinated with four different commercial viral vaccines containing bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), bovine viral diarrhea (BVDV), parainfluenza-3 virus (PI-3V), and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) immunogens. For the initial vaccination certain vaccines were given twice (days 0 and 28), whereas other vaccines were given on day 0. The calves received another injection on day 140 with the vaccine originally given on day 0. The sera were collected at days 0, 7, 14, 21, 28, 42, 56, 84, 112, 140, 154, 168, and 196 and assayed for viral neutralizing antibodies. The calves were seronegative to BHV-1, BVDV, and BRSV at the onset of the experiment; however, the calves were PI-3V antibody positive due to prior active infection. The commercial vaccines were: (I) inactivated; (II) modified live virus (MLV); (III) combination of chemically altered live virus, MLV, and inactivated virus; and (IV) combination of inactivated and MLV. Among the vaccine groups there were differences in onset and duration of antibodies as measured by geometric mean titers to each immunogen in postvaccination collection dates compared to day 0 titers; and likewise compared to day 140 titers after revaccination at day 140. There were also differences in antibody titers to the various viruses among the vaccine groups on specific collection dates. All four vaccines induced increased BHV-1 antibodies by day 14 after the initial injection. The antibody titers induced by MLV BHV-1 and the chemically altered BHV-1 vaccines had greater duration than those induced by the inactivated vaccine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


pmid: 28803517
title: Evaluation of 16 commercial antibody ELISAs for the detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus-specific antibodies in serum and milk using well-characterized sample panels
abstract: We performed a thorough fit-for-purpose evaluation of commercial ELISAs for the detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)-specific antibodies in serum and in milk by testing 2 panels of well-characterized serum and milk samples. Sixteen ELISAs from 9 different manufacturers, available on the Belgian market at the time of our study, were assessed for their diagnostic and analytical sensitivity (DSe and ASe, respectively), diagnostic specificity (DSp), and repeatability relative to the virus neutralization (VN) test considered to be the gold standard assay. Using serum as a matrix, DSe was much lower for competitive (c)ELISAs (min. 45%, max. 65%) than for indirect (i)ELISAs (min. 85%, max. 100%), partly because of the lower detection of positive samples from vaccinated animals included in the panel. ASe was also better for iELISAs; DSp was >95% for all but 2 ELISAs. Repeatability, expressed as coefficients of variation (CV) of optical densities, was generally good, although 3 ELISAs had a mean CV >10%. With milk samples, as observed for serum, DSe was lower for cELISAs (min. 57%, max. 75%) than for iELISAs (min. 61%, max. 89%), and DSp was high for all ELISAs (min. 94%, max. 100%). Both DSe and ASe were lower when testing milk samples compared to serum samples. These results confirm that serologic monitoring of BVDV-free herds should be performed using serum samples of unvaccinated animals to avoid interference of vaccination and to maximize the chance of detecting seroconversion linked to BVDV infection. Further investigations using a larger collection of field samples are recommended.


pmid: 28474402
title: Detection of border disease virus in Mexican cattle
abstract: The genus Pestivirus within Flaviviridae is comprised of four recognized species, namely, bovine viral diarrhoea virus 1 (BVDV-1), bovine viral diarrhoea virus 2 (BVDV-2), border disease virus (BDV) and classical swine fever virus (CSFV). BDV, while primarily infecting sheep and goats, has also been reported in cattle and wild animals. Infections of sheep and goats result in economic loss due to abortions and the birth of persistently infected animals that have poor production and reduced life expectancy. In this study, we report the detection of BDV in cattle serum collected as part of pestivirus surveillance programme from six regions of Mexico, where a 67.1% of BVDV seroprevalence was calculated previously. Phylogenetic analyses based on comparison of the 5'UTR region typed the Mexican strains as BDV-1. Border disease (BD) is listed as an exotic disease in Mexico, and the origin of BDV found in these cattle is unclear. This is the first identification of BDV in Mexican cattle.


pmid: 26525738
title: Experimental infection of calves, sheep, goats and pigs with HoBi-like viruses by direct inoculation or exposure to persistently infected calves
abstract: HoBi-like viruses are an emerging species of pestiviruses associated with respiratory and reproductive disease in cattle and in water buffaloes. Although cattle appear to be the main natural hosts, little is know about the potential for HoBi-like viruses to be transmitted to other livestock. In this study, seronegative calves, goats and pigs, and sheep harboring pestivirus antibodies (probably due to previous exposure to BVDV) were exposed to HoBi-like viruses either by direct inoculation (GIn) or by contact with calves persistently infected with HoBi-like viruses (GEx). Both GIn and GEx groups were monitored for clinical signs, lymphocyte count, virus in buffy coats and nasal swabs up to day 18 post-inoculation (pi). Evidence of transmission of HoBi-like virus by PI calves was observed in all studied species. No difference in clinical presentation was observed between animals in the GIn or GEx groups. Evidence of infection, depending on the species included lymphocyte depletion, fever, viral RNA detection, and/or seroconversion. Depletion of lymphocytes was observed in calves and goats (35% and 50%, respectively) but not in pigs. Seroconversion was observed in at least one animal of each group and for all exposed species. The rate of seroconversion was higher in animals in the GIn experimental groups. In sheep, pre-existing moderate to high neutralizing titers against BVDV did not prevent viral replication and shed. The study demonstrated that naive cattle, goats and pigs, in addition to antibody positive sheep, can be infected by HoBi-like virus via persistently infected calf and potentially transmit the virus.


pmid: 25245007
title: Roles of bovine viral diarrhea virus envelope glycoproteins in inducing autophagy in MDBK cells
abstract: Macroautophagy (autophagy) is an evolutionarily conserved control process that maintains cellular homeostasis in eukaryotic cells. Autophagy principally serves an adaptive role to degrade dysfunctional proteins and to clean damaged organelles in response to pathogenic, viral, or microbial infection, nutrient deprivation and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. In previous study, we showed bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) NADL infection induced autophagy and significantly elevated the expression levels of autophagy-related genes, Beclin1 and ATG14, at 12 h post-infection in MDBK cells. However, the specific mechanisms involved in controlling autophagic activity remain unclear. Here, we investigate the effects of BVDV NADL envelope glycoproteins overexpression on inducing autophagy. The results show that viral envelope glycoproteins E(rns) and E2 overexpression mediated by lentivirus increase the formation of autophagosome, the percentage of GFP-LC3 puncta-positive cells and the expression levels of Beclin1 and ATG14. Whereas E1 overexpression doesn't affect autophagic activity. Collectively, these findings suggest that the viral envelope glycoproteins E(rns) and E2 are involved in inducing autophagy, and provide a mechanistic insight into the regulation of autophagy in viral infected cells.


pmid: 25081944
title: Stochastic simulation modeling to determine time to detect Bovine Viral Diarrhea antibodies in bulk tank milk
abstract: A stochastic simulation model was developed to estimate the time from introduction of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) in a herd to detection of antibodies in bulk tank milk (BTM) samples using three ELISAs. We assumed that antibodies could be detected, after a fixed threshold prevalence of seroconverted milking cows was reached in the herd. Different thresholds were set for each ELISA, according to previous studies. For each test, antibody detection was simulated in small (70 cows), medium (150 cows) and large (320 cows) herds. The assays included were: (1) the Danish blocking ELISA, (2) the SVANOVIR(®)BVDV-Ab ELISA, and (3) the ELISA BVD/MD p80 Institute Pourquier. The validation of the model was mainly carried out by comparing the predicted incidence of persistently infected (PI) calves and the predicted detection time, with records from a BVD infected herd. Results showed that the SVANOVIR, which was the most efficient ELISA, could detect antibodies in the BTM of a large herd 280 days (95% prediction interval: 218; 568) after a transiently infected (TI) milking cow has been introduced into the herd. The estimated time to detection after introduction of one PI calf was 111 days (44; 605). With SVANOVIR ELISA the incidence of PIs and dead born calves could be limited and the impact of the disease on the animal welfare and income of farmers (before detection) could be minimized. The results from the simulation modeling can be used to improve the current Danish BVD surveillance program in detecting early infected herds.


pmid: 24971706
title: Nitazoxanide, an antiviral thiazolide, depletes ATP-sensitive intracellular Ca(2+) stores
abstract: Nitazoxanide (NTZ) inhibits influenza, Japanese encephalitis, hepatitis B and hepatitis C virus replication but effects on the replication of other members of the Flaviviridae family has yet to be defined. The pestivirus bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is a surrogate model for HCV infection and NTZ induced PKR and eIF2α phosphorylation in both uninfected and BVDV-infected cells. This led to the observation that NTZ depletes ATP-sensitive intracellular Ca(2+) stores. In addition to PKR and eIF2α phosphorylation, consequences of NTZ-mediated Ca(2+) mobilisation included induction of chronic sub-lethal ER stress as well as perturbation of viral protein N-linked glycosylation and trafficking. To adapt to NTZ-mediated ER stress, NTZ treated cells upregulated translation of Ca(2+)-binding proteins, including the ER chaperone Bip and the cytosolic pro-survival and anti-viral protein TCTP. Depletion of intracellular Ca(2+) stores is the primary consequence of NTZ treatment and is likely to underpin all antiviral mechanisms attributed to the thiazolide.


pmid: 24478472
title: Pathogens of bovine respiratory disease in North American feedlots conferring multidrug resistance via integrative conjugative elements
abstract: In this study, we determined the prevalence of bovine respiratory disease (BRD)-associated viral and bacterial pathogens in cattle and characterized the genetic profiles, antimicrobial susceptibilities, and nature of antimicrobial resistance determinants in collected bacteria. Nasopharyngeal swab and lung tissue samples from 68 BRD mortalities in Alberta, Canada (n = 42), Texas (n = 6), and Nebraska (n = 20) were screened using PCR for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine respiratory syncytial virus, bovine herpesvirus 1, parainfluenza type 3 virus, Mycoplasma bovis, Mannheimia haemolytica, Pasteurella multocida, and Histophilus somni. Excepting bovine herpesvirus 1, all agents were detected. M. haemolytica (91%) and BVDV (69%) were the most prevalent, with cooccurrence in 63% of the cattle. Isolates of M. haemolytica (n = 55), P. multocida (n = 8), and H. somni (n = 10) from lungs were also collected. Among M. haemolytica isolates, a clonal subpopulation (n = 8) was obtained from a Nebraskan feedlot. All three bacterial pathogens exhibited a high rate of antimicrobial resistance, with 45% exhibiting resistance to three or more antimicrobials. M. haemolytica (n = 18), P. multocida (n = 3), and H. somni (n = 3) from Texas and Nebraska possessed integrative conjugative elements (ICE) that conferred resistance for up to seven different antimicrobial classes. ICE were shown to be transferred via conjugation from P. multocida to Escherichia coli and from M. haemolytica and H. somni to P. multocida. ICE-mediated multidrug-resistant profiles of bacterial BRD pathogens could be a major detriment to many of the therapeutic antimicrobial strategies currently used to control BRD.


pmid: 21147937
title: Hsp110-mediated enhancement of CD4+ T cell responses to the envelope glycoprotein of members of the family Flaviviridae in vitro does not occur in vivo
abstract: The use of heat shock proteins (HSP) to enhance activation of the immune response to chaperoned antigen is being explored for immunotherapy. Hsp110 chaperones large protein substrates more effectively than Hsp70, offering the potential to use complex antigens containing multiple epitopes in HSP-based vaccines. In this study, we investigated the ability of recombinant bovine Hsp110 to chaperone E2 glycoprotein, the major envelope protein of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and the dominant target of neutralizing antibodies. Hsp110 formed complexes with E2, as demonstrated by immunoprecipitation. When monocytes from BVDV-immunized cattle were stimulated with these complexes and incubated with autologous CD4(+) T cells, enhanced levels of proliferation were observed. To determine the ability of these complexes to improve immunogenicity in vivo, cattle were vaccinated with either Hsp110-E2 complex or E2 only, combined with Quil-A adjuvant. In contrast to the in vitro data, cellular and humoral responses to E2 were greater in the E2-only vaccination group, indicating that complex formation had actually reduced the immunogenicity of E2. This study highlights the need for further understanding of the means by which HSP complexes are endocytosed and processed in vivo to enable the design of successful vaccine strategies.


pmid: 18343842
title: Thiopurines inhibit bovine viral diarrhea virus production in a thiopurine methyltransferase-dependent manner
abstract: The family Flaviviridae comprises positive-strand RNA viral pathogens of humans and livestock with few treatment options. We have previously shown that azathioprine (AZA) has in vitro activity against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). While the mechanism of inhibition is unknown, AZA and related thiopurine nucleoside analogues have been used as immunosuppressants for decades and both AZA metabolites and cellular genes involved in AZA metabolism have been extensively characterized. Here, we show that only certain riboside metabolites have antiviral activity and identify the most potent known antiviral AZA metabolite as 6-methylmercaptopurine riboside (6MMPr). The antiviral activity of 6MMPr is antagonized by adenosine, and is specific to BVDV and not to the related yellow fever virus. An essential step in the conversion of AZA to 6MMPr is the addition of a methyl group onto the sulfur atom attached to position six of the purine ring. Intracellularly, the methyl group is added by thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT), an S-adenosyl methionine-dependent methyltransferase. Either chemically bypassing or inhibiting TPMT modulates antiviral activity of AZA metabolites. TPMT exists in several variants with varying levels of activity and since 6MMPr is a potent antiviral, the antiviral activity of AZA may be modulated by host genetics.


pmid: 26579205
title: Actinobacteria from Termite Mounds Show Antiviral Activity against Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus, a Surrogate Model for Hepatitis C Virus
abstract: Extracts from termite-associated bacteria were evaluated for in vitro antiviral activity against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Two bacterial strains were identified as active, with percentages of inhibition (IP) equal to 98%. Both strains were subjected to functional analysis via the addition of virus and extract at different time points in cell culture; the results showed that they were effective as posttreatments. Moreover, we performed MTT colorimetric assays to identify the CC50, IC50, and SI values of these strains, and strain CDPA27 was considered the most promising. In parallel, the isolates were identified as Streptomyces through 16S rRNA gene sequencing analysis. Specifically, CDPA27 was identified as S. chartreusis. The CDPA27 extract was fractionated on a C18-E SPE cartridge, and the fractions were reevaluated. A 100% methanol fraction was identified to contain the compound(s) responsible for antiviral activity, which had an SI of 262.41. GC-MS analysis showed that this activity was likely associated with the compound(s) that had a peak retention time of 5 min. Taken together, the results of the present study provide new information for antiviral research using natural sources, demonstrate the antiviral potential of Streptomyces chartreusis compounds isolated from termite mounds against BVDV, and lay the foundation for further studies on the treatment of HCV infection.


pmid: 25929158
title: Structured literature review of responses of cattle to viral and bacterial pathogens causing bovine respiratory disease complex
abstract: Bovine respiratory disease (BRD) is an economically important disease of cattle and continues to be an intensely studied topic. However, literature summarizing the time between pathogen exposure and clinical signs, shedding, and seroconversion is minimal. A structured literature review of the published literature was performed to determine cattle responses (time from pathogen exposure to clinical signs, shedding, and seroconversion) in challenge models using common BRD viral and bacterial pathogens. After review a descriptive analysis of published studies using common BRD pathogen challenge studies was performed. Inclusion criteria were single pathogen challenge studies with no treatment or vaccination evaluating outcomes of interest: clinical signs, shedding, and seroconversion. Pathogens of interest included: bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BHV-1), parainfluenza-3 virus, bovine respiratory syncytial virus, Mannheimia haemolytica, Mycoplasma bovis, Pastuerella multocida, and Histophilus somni. Thirty-five studies and 64 trials were included for analysis. The median days to the resolution of clinical signs after BVDV challenge was 15 and shedding was not detected on day 12 postchallenge. Resolution of BHV-1 shedding resolved on day 12 and clinical signs on day 12 postchallenge. Bovine respiratory syncytial virus ceased shedding on day 9 and median time to resolution of clinical signs was on day 12 postchallenge. M. haemolytica resolved clinical signs 8 days postchallenge. This literature review and descriptive analysis can serve as a resource to assist in designing challenge model studies and potentially aid in estimation of duration of clinical disease and shedding after natural pathogen exposure.


pmid: 24484497
title: Blood collected on filter paper for wildlife serology: detecting antibodies to Neospora caninum, West Nile virus, and five bovine viruses in reindeer
abstract: We compared Nobuto filter paper (FP) whole-blood samples to serum for detecting antibodies to seven pathogens in reindeer (Rangifer tarandus tarandus). Serum and FP samples were collected from captive reindeer in 2008-2009. Sample pairs (serum and FP eluates) were assayed in duplicate at diagnostic laboratories with the use of competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (cELISAs) for Neospora caninum and West Nile virus (WNV); indirect ELISA (iELISAs) for bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BHV-1), parainfluenza virus type 3 (PI-3), and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV); and virus neutralization (VN) for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) types I and II. Assay thresholds were evidence-based values employed by each laboratory. Comparable performance to serum was defined as FP sensitivity and specificity ≥ 80%. Filter-paper specificity estimates ranged from 92% in the cELISAs for N. caninum and WNV to 98% in the iELISAs for PI-3 and BRSV. Sensitivity was >85% for five tests (most ≥ 95%) but was insufficient (71-82%) for the PI-3 and BRSV iELISAs. Lowering the threshold for FP samples in these two ELISAs raised sensitivity to ≥ 87% and reduced specificity slightly (≥ 90% in three of the four test runs). Sample size limited the precision of some performance estimates. Based on the criteria of sensitivity and specificity ≥ 80%, and using adjusted FP thresholds for PI-3 and BRSV, FP sensitivity and specificity were comparable to serum in all seven assays. A potential limitation of FP is reduced sensitivity in tests that require undiluted serum (i.e., N. caninum cELISA and BVDV VNs). Possible toxicity to the assay cell layer in VN requires investigation. Results suggested that cELISA is superior to iELISA for detecting antibodies in FP samples from reindeer and other Rangifer tarandus subspecies. Our findings expand the potential utility of FP sampling from wildlife.


pmid: 24099437
title: Monitoring the immune response to vaccination with an inactivated vaccine associated to bovine neonatal pancytopenia by deep sequencing transcriptome analysis in cattle
abstract: Bovine neonatal pancytopenia (BNP) is a new fatal, alloimmune/alloantibody mediated disease of new-born calves induced by ingestion of colostrum from cows, which had been vaccinated with a specific vaccine against the Bovine Virus Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV). The hypothesis of pathogenic MHC class I molecules in the vaccine had been put up, but no formal proof of specific causal MHC class I alleles has been provided yet. However, the unique features of the vaccine obviously result in extremely high specific antibody titres in the vaccinated animals, but apparently also in further molecules inducing BNP. Thus, a comprehensive picture of the immune response to the vaccine is essential. Applying the novel approach of next generation RNA sequencing (RNAseq), our study provides a new holistic, comprehensive analysis of the blood transcriptome regulation after vaccination with the specific BVDV vaccine. Our RNAseq approach identified a novel cytokine-like gene in the bovine genome that is highly upregulated after vaccination. This gene has never been described before in any other species and might be specific to ruminant immune response. Furthermore, our data revealed a very coordinated immune response to double-stranded (ds) RNA or a dsRNA analogue after vaccination with the inactivated single-stranded (ss) RNA vaccine. This would suggest either a substantial contamination of the vaccine with dsRNA from host cells after virus culture or a dsRNA analogue applied to the vaccine. The first option would highlight the potential risks associated with virus culture on homologous cells during vaccine production; the latter option would emphasise the potential risks associated with immune stimulating adjuvants used in vaccine production.


pmid: 34513968
title: The Northern Ireland Control Programmes for Infectious Cattle Diseases Not Regulated by the EU
abstract: The disease control programmes for Bovine Viral Diarrhoea (BVD), Infectious Bovine Rhinotracheitis (IBR), Johne's Disease (JD), Leptospirosis and Neosporosis are described including the approved diagnostic tools, diagnostic quality systems, and the role of vaccination (where appropriate). This paper describes the control programmes within NI, the challenges relating them, as well as assessing their impact and effectiveness, taking into consideration the quality of data available and number of herds participating. With the NI agricultural industry experiencing increasing financial pressures and post Brexit changes, the necessity of working to maximise the performance of bovine disease control programmes at the individual farm level as well as at the regional level is increasingly important. The programmes described fall into two categories with two distinct aims. Two managed by Animal Health & Welfare NI (AHWNI), the BVD eradication and JD Dairy Control programmes seek to eradicate or control infection at the regional level. A further 5 programmes, covering BVD, JD, IBR, Leptospirosis and Neosporosis, are managed by the Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute (AFBI) and focus on facilitating eradication or control at the individual herd level. These latter programmes conform to the Cattle Health Certification Standards (UK) (CHeCS) which is a UK self-regulatory body set up to ensure consistency between different disease control schemes across herds. The largest of all the programmes described is the AHWNI BVD Eradication Programme which has led to significant reductions in infection incidence. Compliance with it has been high with more than 97% of all cattle alive at the end of 2020 having a BVD test status. The rolling annual incidence of BVD virus positive calves has fallen by 56% since the start of the compulsory programme in 2016. This decrease has occurred largely through industry initiatives to deal with BVD positives, including the voluntary culling of persistently infected (PI) animals by herd owners, a voluntary abattoir ban on the slaughter of BVD virus (BVDv) positive animals, and the inclusion of retention of a BVDv positive animal as a non-conformance in the industry-run Farm Quality Assurance Scheme.


pmid: 27376375
title: Experimental infection with non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 in mice induces inflammatory cell infiltration in the spleen
abstract: Previously, our study showed that oral inoculation of mice with cytopathic (cp) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) led to lymphocyte depletion and increased numbers of megakaryocytes in the spleen as well as thrombocytopenia and lymphopenia. In the present study, to investigate the possible differences in the detection of viral antigen, histopathological lesions, and hematologic changes between non-cytopathic (ncp) BVDV1 and cp BVDV1, mice were orally administered low and high doses of ncp BVDV1 and were necropsied at days 0, 2, 5, and 9 postinfection (pi). None of the ncp BVDV1-infected mice exhibited clinical signs of illness, unlike those infected with cp BVDV1. Statistically significant thrombocytopenia was observed during ncp BVDV1 infection, and lymphopenia was found only in mice infected with a high dose at day 9 pi. Interestingly, ncp BVDV1 infection increased the numbers of basophils, eosinophils, neutrophils, and monocytes in some infected mice. Viral antigen was detected in the lymphocytes of the spleen, mesenteric lymph nodes, Peyer's patches, and bone marrow by immunohistochemistry. Lymphoid depletion was evident in the mesenteric lymph nodes of mice infected with a high dose and also found in the Peyer's patches of some infected mice. Infiltration of inflammatory cells, including neutrophils and monocytes, and an increased number of megakaryocytes were seen in the spleen. These results suggest that the distribution of viral antigens is not associated with the presence of histopathological lesions. Inflammatory cell infiltration was observed in the spleens as a result of viral replication and may be attributable to the host reaction to ncp BVDV1 infection. Together, these findings support the possibility that mice can be used as an animal model for BVDV infection.


pmid: 17071103
title: Viral safety of C1-inhibitor NF
abstract: We studied the efficacy of virus reduction by three process steps (polyethylene glycol 4000 (PEG) precipitation, pasteurization, and 15nm virus filtration) in the manufacturing of C1-inhibitor NF. The potential prion removing capacity in this process was estimated based on data from the literature. Virus studies were performed using hepatitis A virus (HAV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) as relevant viruses and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), canine parvovirus (CPV) and pseudorabies virus (PRV) as model viruses, respectively. In the PEG precipitation step, an average reduction in infectious titer of 4.5log(10) was obtained for all five viruses tested. Pasteurization resulted in reduction of infectious virus of >6log(10) for BVDV, HIV, and PRV; for HAV the reduction factor was limited to 2.8log(10) and for CPV it was zero. Virus filtration (15nm) reduced the infectious titer of all viruses by more than 4.5log(10). The overall virus reducing capacity was >16log(10) for the LE viruses. For the NLE viruses CPV and HAV, the overall virus reducing capacities were >8.7 and >10.5log(10), respectively. Based on literature and theoretical assumptions, the prion reducing capacity of the C1-inhibitor NF process was estimated to be >9log(10).


pmid: 16828906
title: Spatial hierarchical variances and age covariances for seroprevalence to Leptospira interrogans serovar hardjo, BoHV-1 and BVDV for cattle in the State of Paraíba, Brazil
abstract: We estimated spatial hierarchal variances and age-group covariances for seroprevalence to Leptospira interrogans serovar hardjo (LeptoH), bovine viral-diarrhea virus (BVDV) and bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BoHV-1) among 2343 cattle from 72 properties sampled in the State of Paraíba, Brazil in 2000. From each property, eight animals in each of the four age categories were evaluated. The age categories studied were: pre-weaned (0-6 months), young (7-18 months), replacement (19-30 months) and mature (>30 months). Overall seroprevalence to LeptoH was 16.0% and showed clustering at all levels of the spatial hierarchy and had a high posterior probability of being negatively correlated between replacement and mature groups within herds. Seroprevalence to BoHV-1 was 46.6% and demonstrated very little clustering among levels of the spatial hierarchy and was positively correlated between young and replacement groups within herds. Seroprevalence to BVD was 22.2% and was strongly clustered within herds and was positively correlated between young and replacement age groups within herds.


pmid: 15331694
title: Involvement of a bovine viral diarrhea virus NS5B locus in virion assembly
abstract: A novel mutant of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was found with a virion assembly phenotype attributable to an insertion into the NS5B polymerase locus. This mutant, termed 5B-741, was engineered by reverse genetics to express NS5B with a C-terminal peptide tag of 22 amino acids. Electroporation of bovine cells with genomic RNA from this mutant showed levels RNA synthesis which were regarded as sufficient for infectivity, yet infectious virions were not produced. Pseudorevertants of mutant 5B-741 that released infectious virions and formed plaques revealed a single nucleotide change (T12369C). This change resulted in a leucine-to-proline substitution within the NS5B tag (L726P). Genetic analysis revealed that indeed a single nucleotide change encoding proline at NS5B position 726 in the pseudorevertant polyprotein mediated recovery of virion assembly function without improving genomic RNA accumulation levels. A subgenomic BVDV reporter replicon (rNS3-5B) was used to analyze the consequences of alterations of the genomic region encoding the NS5B C terminus on replication and assembly. Interestingly, rNS3-5B-L726P (revertant) replicated with the same efficiency as the rNS3-5B-741 mutant but produced 10 times more virions in a trans-packaging assay. These results indicated that impairment of assembly function in 5B-741 was independent of RNA accumulation levels and agreed with the observations from the full-length mutant and revertant genomes. Finally, we recapitulated the packaging defect of 5B-741 with a vaccinia virus expression system to eliminate possible unwanted interactions between the helper virus and the packaged replicon. Taken together, these studies revealed an unexpected role of NS5B in infectious virion assembly.


pmid: 8583646
title: Bovine virus diarrhea and mucosal disease in free-ranging and captive deer (Cervidae) in Germany
abstract: From 1990 until 1992, 355 blood samples of roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) (n = 123), red deer (Cervus elaphus) (n = 60), fallow deer (Dama dama) (n = 87) and other cervid species (n = 85) from three different habitats (n = 180) and 11 wildlife parks or zoos (n = 175) in Germany were tested for prevalence of pestivirus antibodies. Seventeen samples were seropositive for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV); only one animal had antibodies for Border disease virus. Microneutralization test titers ranged from 1:5 to 1:125. We found no significant difference in antibody prevalence among deer in habitats with high, intermediate and low density of cattle. There were significantly more seropositive individuals in roe deer compared to fallow deer. Significantly more seropositive individuals were found among juvenile animals than among adults. Antibody prevalence in free-ranging cervids was significantly higher compared with that of deer in enclosures. Antibody prevalence in summer was significantly higher than in winter.


pmid: 28606363
title: Patterns of calving and young stock movement in Ireland and their implications for BVD serosurveillance
abstract: The Republic of Ireland has a national eradication programme for bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDv) based on tissue-tag testing of calves to identify persistently infected animals (PIs). It has been proposed that serological testing of a sample of home-bred young stock would be a more cost effective surveillance mechanism than continued tissue-tag testing in herds which have previously been found to be BVD-free. These animals would have to be at least 6 months of age to avoid interference from maternal antibodies in test results. To examine the potential practicality of this system, we identified birth profiles and movements of calves born in Ireland during 2014 and 2015. We found that birth profiles for both beef and dairy animals were more evenly distributed throughout the year than often assumed, which should be borne in mind when evaluating the suitability of a single round of serological testing in the autumn for every herd. A large amount of movement was identified, with approximately 43% of calves experiencing a move before they reached 10 months of age, including moves to another Irish herd, to a knackery, to export, or to slaughter. Approximately 19% of calves had moved to other breeding herds in Ireland within this period. There were distinct patterns according to movement type, month of birth and herd type. The majority of herds moved either all or none of their calves in the first 10 months of life. These results indicate that young stock serological testing is unlikely to be an appropriate surveillance mechanism for all BVDv-free herds, as (i) many herds would not be able to supply a large enough sample of suitably aged home-bred young stock at a single point in time and (ii) PIs which would have been picked up by tissue-tag testing soon after birth would have moved from their home herd, to infect other herds, before serological testing could be conducted.


pmid: 23685181
title: Novel artemisinin derivatives with potential usefulness against liver/colon cancer and viral hepatitis
abstract: Antitumor and antiviral properties of the antimalaria drug artemisinin from Artemisia annua have been reported. Novel artemisinin derivatives (AD1-AD8) have been synthesized and evaluated using in vitro models of liver/colon cancer and viral hepatitis B and C. Cell viability assays after treating human cell lines from hepatoblastoma (HepG2), hepatocarcinoma (SK-HEP-1), and colon adenocarcinoma (LS174T) with AD1-AD8 for a short (6h) and long (72h) period revealed that AD5 combined low acute toxicity together with high antiproliferative effect (IC50=1-5μM). Since iron-mediated activation of peroxide bond is involved in artemisinin antimalarial activity, the effect of iron(II)-glycine sulfate (ferrosanol) and iron(III)-containing protoporphyrin IX (hemin) was investigated. Ferrosanol, but not hemin, enhanced antiproliferative activity of AD5 if the cells were preloaded with AD5, but not if both compouds were added together. Five derivatives (AD1>AD2>AD7>AD3>AD8) were able to inhibit the cytopathic effect of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), a surrogate in vitro model of hepatitis C virus (HCV), used here to evaluate the anti-Flaviviridae activity. Moreover, AD1 and AD2 inhibited the release of BVDV-RNA to the culture medium. Co-treatment with hemin or ferrosanol resulted in enhanced anti-Flaviviridae activity of AD1. In HepG2 cells permanently infected with hepatitis B virus (HBV), AD1 and AD4, at non-toxic concentrations for the host cells were able to reduce the release of HBV-DNA to the medium. In conclusion, high pharmacological interest deserving further evaluation in animal models has been identified for novel artemisinin-related drugs potentially useful for the treatment of liver cancer and viral hepatitis B and C.


pmid: 23524138
title: Mutations induced in the NS5B gene of bovine viral diarrhea virus by antiviral treatment convey resistance to the compound
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a widespread bovine pathogen for which there is no specific therapeutic agent. A previous study using 2-(2-benzimidazolyl)-5-[4-(2-imidazolino)phenyl]furan dihydrochloride (DB772) to treat calves persistently infected with BVDV resulted in a decrease in the viral load of infected calves but treatment resulted in the rapid selection of drug-resistant mutant isolates. In this article we describe three mutations found in the mutant isolates associated with in vivo and in vitro resistance to DB772. All three mutations are found in the NS5B which functions as the RNA-dependent-RNA-polymerase during viral replication. Growth curves for the mutant isolates were not largely different from those of wild-type isolates when cultured in the absence of DB772. Thus, DB772 appears to act by binding to the specified domain but binding is disrupted or inhibited by the described mutation.


pmid: 15074714
title: Synthesis of beta-enantiomers of N4-hydroxy-3'-deoxypyrimidine nucleosides and their evaluation against bovine viral diarrhoea virus and hepatitis C virus in cell culture
abstract: N4-Hydroxycytidine (NHC) was recently reported to have anti-pestivirus and anti-hepacivirus activity. It is thought that this nucleoside acts as a weak alternative substrate for the hepatitis C virus (HCV) polymerase. In addition to NHC, 3'-deoxyuridine (3'-dU) was found to inhibit bovine diarrhoea virus (BVDV) production by 1 log10 at 37.2 microM. These initial findings prompted the synthesis of beta-D and beta-L analogues of (i) base-modified 3'-deoxy-NHC; (ii) 3'-deoxyuridine; and 3'-deoxycytidine. The antiviral activity of these 42 nucleosides was evaluated against BVDV and HCV bicistronic replicon in cell culture. Among the NHC analogues, the antiviral activity observed for the beta-L-3'-deoxy-5-fluoro-derivative 1-(3-deoxy-beta-L-erythro-pentofuranosyl)-5-fluoro-4-hydroxyaminopyrimidin-2(1H)-one and the beta-D-3'-deoxy-5-iodo-derivative 1-(3-deoxy-beta-D-erythro-pentofuranosyl)-5-iodocytosine in the replicon system (1 log10 reduction at 100 microM) was due to the concomitant toxicity towards intracellular ribosomal RNA levels (CC90 equal or lower than the EC90). In conclusion, none of the newly synthesized derivatives exhibited enhanced antiviral activity compared to the parent nucleoside NHC.


pmid: 20149501
title: Synthesis and antiviral activity of an imidazo[1,2-a]pyrrolo[2,3-c]pyridine series against the bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: A series of imidazo[1,2-a]pyrrolo[2,3-c]pyridines has been prepared and evaluated for their anti-BVDV activities in MDBK cells. From the synthesized analogues bearing modifications of the substituents at positions 2, 3, 7 and 8, compounds 10a, b, 16, 24, 25 and 26 exhibited significant anti-BVDV activities.


pmid: 8968126
title: Evaluation of a gp 55 (E2) recombinant-based ELISA for the detection of antibodies induced by classical swine fever virus
abstract: An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for the detection of antibodies against classical swine fever virus (CSFV) based on the competition of the serum antibodies with a CSFV-specific monoclonal antibody directed against the viral glycoprotein gp 55 (E2), has been evaluated. A total of 553 sera obtained from pigs experimentally infected in groups with different pestiviruses were included in this study. The ELISA was applied to a group of sera collected from pigs prior to pestivirus inoculation and therefore expected to have no detectable CSFV neutralizing antibodies. The specificity of the ELISA was calculated to range between 93% and 98%. The sensitivity of the ELISA was determined by testing predominantly sera of pigs exposed to CSFV and exhibiting CSFV neutralizing antibodies. When the cut-off level was reduced by 10%, the average sensitivity increased from 60% to 70% for the groups of sera tested. The ELISA was able to discriminate between CSFV and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) induced antibodies.


pmid: 26701085
title: Complete Genome Sequence of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus-1 Strain Egy/Ismailia/2014, Subtype 1b
abstract: Here, we report the complete genome sequence of bovine viral diarrhea virus-1b (BVDV-1b), strain Egy/Ismailia/2014. The virus genome is composed of 12,217 nucleotides organized as one open reading frame encoding 3,898 amino acids. This report will assist efforts in diagnostics, studying molecular epidemiology, and control of BVDV in Egypt.


pmid: 27190687
title: Virulent Properties of Russian Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus Strains in Experimentally Infected Calves
abstract: The results of experimental study of three noncytopathic and two cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strains isolated from cattle in the Siberian region and belonging to the type 1 (subtypes 1a, 1b, and 1d) have been presented. All investigated strains caused the development of infectious process in the seronegative 4-6-month-old calves after aerosol challenge with the dose of 6 log10 TCID50. The greatest virulence had noncytopathic strain and cytopathic strain related to the subtypes 1d and 1b, respectively. All strains in infected calves caused some signs of moderate acute respiratory disease and diarrhea: depression 3-5 days postinfection (p.i.), refusal to food, severe hyperthermia to 41.9°С, serous exudate discharges from the nasal cavity and eyes, transient diarrhea with blood, leukopenia (up to 2700 cells/mm(3)), and macroscopic changes in the respiratory organs and intestine. The infected animals recovered from 12 to 15 days p.i. and in 90% cases formed humoral immune response 25 days p.i. (antibody titers to BVDV: 1 : 4-1 : 16). Our results confirmed the presence of virulent BVDV1 strains and showed the need for researches on the molecular epidemiology of the disease, development of more effective diagnostic systems, and optimization of control programs with use of vaccines.


pmid: 27016723
title: Pretreatment of serum samples to reduce interference of colostrum-derived specific antibodies with detection of Bovine viral diarrhea virus antigen by ELISA in young calves
abstract: Antigen enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) is used for the detection of Bovine viral diarrhea virus persistently infected (BVDV PI) cattle; however, colostrum-derived antibodies may interfere with antigen detection in serum from young PI calves. Our study aimed to assess serum pretreatment methods for reducing such interference. Dilution of PI serum with serum containing specific antibody showed that antibody levels equivalent to those observed in colostrum-fed calves were able to eliminate all antigen signals in a serum sample. Serum was treated with ethylenediamine tetra-acetic acid at pH 4.5, 5.5, 6.5, and 7.5, then boiled, centrifuged, and the supernatant-recovered. BVDV antibody was undetectable by ELISA in supernatants from treated samples, and the antigen ELISA signal was improved. Maximum antigen signal recovery of >90% was achieved at pH 5 ± 0.5. When this optimal treatment method was applied to field samples from 3 PI calves (which were negative in the antigen-capture ELISA without treatment), the antigen signal improved and gave a positive result in each case. Pretreatment may provide an improvement in the detection of young PI calves.


pmid: 20833013
title: Surface functionalization of electrospun nanofibers for detecting E. coli O157:H7 and BVDV cells in a direct-charge transfer biosensor
abstract: Electrospinning is a versatile and cost effective method to fabricate biocompatible nanofibrous materials. The novel nanostructure significantly increases the surface area and mass transfer rate, which improves the biochemical binding effect and sensor signal to noise ratio. This paper presents the electrospinning method of nitrocellulose nanofibrous membrane and its antibody functionalization for application of bacterial and viral pathogen detection. The capillary action of the nanofibrous membrane is further enhanced using oxygen plasma treatment. An electrospun biosensor is designed based on capillary separation and conductometric immunoassay. The silver electrode is fabricated using spray deposition method which is non-invasive for the electrospun nanofibers. The surface functionalization and sensor assembly process retain the unique fiber morphology. The antibody attachment and pathogen binding effect is verified using the confocal laser scanning microscope (CLSM) and scanning electronic microscope (SEM). The electrospun biosensor exhibits linear response to both microbial samples, Escherichia coli O157:H7 and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) sample. The detection time of the biosensor is 8 min, and the detection limit is 61 CFU/mL and 10(3)CCID/mL for bacterial and viral samples, respectively. With the advantage of efficient antibody functionalization, excellent capillary capability, and relatively low cost, the electrospinning process and surface functionalization method can be implemented to produce nanofibrous capture membrane for different immuno-detection applications.


pmid: 17251130
title: Mycobacterium bovis shedding patterns from experimentally infected calves and the effect of concurrent infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Concurrent infection of cattle with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and Mycobacterium bovis is considered to be a possible risk factor for onward transmission of bovine tuberculosis (BTB) in infected cattle and is known to compromise diagnostic tests. A comparison is made here of M. bovis shedding (i.e. release) characteristics from 12 calves, six experimentally co-infected with BVDV and six infected with M. bovis alone, using simple models of bacterial replication. These statistical and mathematical models account for the intermittent or episodic nature of shedding, the dynamics of within-host bacterial proliferation and the sampling distribution from a given shedding episode. We show that while there are distinct differences among the shedding patterns of calves given the same infecting dose, there is no statistically significant difference between the two groups of calves. Such differences as there are, can be explained solely in terms of the shedding frequency, but with all calves potentially excreting the same amount of bacteria in a given shedding episode post-infection. The model can be thought of as a process of the bacteria becoming established in a number of discrete foci of colonization, rather than as a more generalized infection of the respiratory tract. In this case, the variability in the shedding patterns of the infected calves can be explained solely by differences in the number of foci established and shedding being from individual foci over time. Should maximum exposure on a particular occasion be a critical consideration for cattle-to-cattle transmission of BTB, cattle that shed only intermittently may still make an important contribution to the spread and persistence of the disease.


pmid: 11533162
title: Study of the mechanism of antiviral action of iminosugar derivatives against bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The glucose-derived iminosugar derivatives N-butyl- and N-nonyl-deoxynojirimycin (DNJ) have an antiviral effect against a broad spectrum of viruses including Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). For BVDV, this effect has been attributed to the reduction of viral secretion due to an impairment of viral morphogenesis caused by the ability of DNJ-based iminosugar derivatives to inhibit ER alpha-glucosidases (N. Zitzmann, A. S. Mehta, S. Carrouée, T. D. Butters, F. M. Platt, J. McCauley, B. S. Blumberg, R. A. Dwek, and T. M. Block, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 96:11878-11882, 1999). Here we present the antiviral features of newly designed DNJ derivatives and report for the first time the antiviral activity of long-alkyl-chain derivatives of deoxygalactonojirimycin (DGJ), a class of iminosugars derived from galactose which does not inhibit endoplasmic reticulum (ER) alpha-glucosidases. We demonstrate the lack of correlation between the ability of long-alkyl-chain DNJ derivatives to inhibit ER alpha-glucosidases and their antiviral effect, ruling out ER alpha-glucosidase inhibition as the sole mechanism responsible. Using short- and long-alkyl-chain DNJ and DGJ derivatives, we investigated the mechanisms of action of these drugs. First, we excluded their potential action at the level of the replication, protein synthesis, and protein processing. Second, we demonstrated that DNJ derivatives cause both a reduction in viral secretion and a reduction in the infectivity of newly released viral particles. Long-alkyl-chain DGJ derivatives exert their antiviral effect solely via the production of viral particles with reduced infectivity. We demonstrate that long-alkyl-chain DNJ and DGJ derivatives induce an increase in the quantity of E2-E2 dimers accumulated within the ER. The subsequent enrichment of these homodimers in secreted virus particles correlates with their reduced infectivity.


pmid: 10208725
title: Inactivation kinetics of model and relevant blood-borne viruses by treatment with sodium hydroxide and heat
abstract: To determine the efficacy of a clean-in-place system for the inactivation of viruses present in human plasma, the effect of 0.1 M sodium hydroxide at 60 degrees C on viral infectivity was investigated. Inactivation of the following model and relevant viruses were followed as a function of time: human hepatitis A virus (HAV), canine parvovirus (CPV; a model for human parvovirus B-19) pseudorabies virus (PRV, a model for hepatitis B virus), and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV, a model for hepatitis C virus and human immunodeficiency virus). Infectivity of CPV was determined by a novel in situ EIA method which will prove useful for studies to validate parvovirus inactivation or removal. Infectivity of BVDV, PRV and CPV were shown to be reproducibly inactivated below the limit of detection by 0.1 M NaOH at 60 degrees C within 30 s. HAV was inactivated to below the limit of detection within 2 min. Treatment with heat alone also resulted in some log reduction for all viruses tested except for CPV which remained unaffected after heating at 60 degrees C for 16 min. Treatment of HAV with hydroxide alone (up to 1.0 m) at 15 degrees C did not lead to rapid inactivation. Collectively, these data suggest that 0.1 M NaOH at 60 degrees C for two min should be sufficient to inactivate viruses present in process residues.


pmid: 9689745
title: Border disease of sheep and goats
abstract: Border disease (BD) is a congenital virus disease of sheep and goats first reported in 1959 from the border region of England and Wales. BD virus (BDV) is a pestivirus in the genus Flaviviridae and is closely related to classical swine fever virus and bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV). Nearly all isolates of BDV are non-cytopathogenic (ncp) in cell culture. There are no defined serotypes but pestiviruses isolated from sheep exhibit considerable antigenic diversity and three distinct antigenic groups have been identified. Distribution of the virus is worldwide. Prevalence rates vary in sheep from 5 to 50% between countries and from region-to-region within countries. The disease in goats is rare and characterized by abortion. Clinical signs in sheep include barren ewes, abortions, stillbirths and the birth of small weak lambs. Affected lambs can show tremor, abnormal body conformation and hairy fleeces (so-called 'hairy-shaker' or 'fuzzy' lambs). Vertical transmission plays an important role in the epidemiology of the disease. Infection of fetuses can result in the birth of persistently infected (PI) lambs. These PI lambs are viraemic, antibody negative and constantly excrete virus. The virus spreads from sheep to sheep with PI animals being the most potent source of infection. Apparently healthy PI sheep resulting from congenital infection can be identified by direct detection of viral antigen or viral RNA in leukocytes or by isolation of ncp virus from blood or serum in laboratory cell cultures. Isolation of virus is unreliable in lambs younger than 2 months old that have received colostral antibody. The isolation of virus from tissues of aborted or stillborn lambs is difficult but tissues from PI sheep contain easily detectable levels of virus. To detect the growth of virus in cell cultures it is essential to use an immune-labelling method. Acute infection is usually subclinical and viraemia is transient and difficult to detect. Sheep may also be infected following close contact with cattle excreting the closely related BVDV.


pmid: 9557703
title: Insertion of a sequence encoding light chain 3 of microtubule-associated proteins 1A and 1B in a pestivirus genome: connection with virus cytopathogenicity and induction of lethal disease in cattle
abstract: Pestiviruses represent the first RNA viruses for which recombination with cellular protein-coding sequences has been reported. As a result of such recombinations cytopathogenic (cp) pestiviruses can develop from noncytopathogenic (noncp) viruses. In the case of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), the generation of cp mutants is linked to the induction of the lethal syndrome mucosal disease (MD) in cattle. The cp BVDV JaCP was isolated from an animal which had come down with MD. The genome of JaCP contains a novel kind of cellular insertion (LC3*) which is flanked by duplicated pestivirus sequences. Neither insertion nor duplication is present in the genome of the accompanying noncp virus JaNCP. As part of the viral polyprotein, the insertion in the JaCP genome is translated into a polypeptide almost identical to a fragment of light chain 3, a subunit of the microtubule-associated proteins 1A and 1B from the rat. Transient-expression studies revealed that the LC3* sequence is able to induce an additional cleavage of the viral polyprotein. The respective cleavage occurs directly downstream of the LC3*-encoded sequence and is not dependent on the NS3 serine protease. Insertion of LC3* into an infectious noncp pestivirus cDNA clone without duplicated viral sequences resulted in recovery of a defective cp virus able to replicate only in the presence of a noncp helper virus. In contrast, introduction of both insertion and duplication led to an autonomously replicating cp virus.


pmid: 7704839
title: A seroepidemiological study of the importance in cow-calf pairs of respiratory and enteric viruses in beef operations from northwestern Quebec
abstract: Serum antibody analyses for bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BHV-1), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), bovine coronavirus (BCV), and bovine rotavirus (BRV) were performed on 527 randomly selected cows, before calving, and on 407 three-week-old calves. In cows and calves, BCV and BRV were the most seroprevalent viruses (80% to 100% according to virus and vaccination status). Bovine respiratory syncytial virus was the least seroprevalent in the cows, independent of the vaccination status. In nonvaccinated cows the seroprevalence to BRSV was 36.7%, and 53.5% in cows vaccinated less than two weeks prior to collecting blood, and 67.6% in cows vaccinated two weeks or more prior to blood collection. In their calves, BHV-1 was the least seroprevalent, independent of the vaccination status. The serological status and antibody titers in calves were generally associated with those of the dam. The occurrence of respiratory diseases in the calves was associated with cow and calf serological profiles (BHV-1, BRSV and BCV in the nonvaccinated group, BHV-1, BVDV and BCV in the vaccinated group). The occurrence of diarrhea was not associated with cow and calf serological profiles but was negatively associated with high level calf serum IgG in the nonvaccinated group (odds ratio = 0.73). Bovine coronavirus and BRV were shed by 1.4% and 4.9% of calves in the nonvaccinated group, and by 0% and 9.9% of calves in the vaccinated group, respectively. Bovine rotavirus shedding was associated with fecal diarrheic consistency at the moment of fecal sampling but not with previous occurrence of diarrhea.


pmid: 23726223
title: Effect of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus on the ovarian functionality and in vitro reproductive performance of persistently infected heifers
abstract: The aim of this study was to study the effect of Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus on the reproductive female tract by means of analyzing the ovarian follicular population of persistently infected (PI) heifers, and evaluating the performance of oocytes procured form those heifers in in vitro fertilization procedures. Seven BVDV PI Aberdeen Angus and British crossbred heifers ranging from 18 to 36 months of age were spayed and their ovaries used for viral isolation, microscopic examination, and in vitro fertilization procedures. Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus was detected from the follicular fluid and sera of all PI heifers. Microscopic examination of the ovaries from PI heifers showed a significant drop in the number of follicles cortical regions, compared with controls. A comparative analysis of the stages of follicular development showed a significant decrease in the number of primordial and tertiary follicles in the cortical regions of ovaries from PI heifers. Viral antigen was detected by immunohistochemistry, and was widely distributed throughout the ovarian tissues. There were differences in the rate of cleavage and embryo development between oocytes obtained from the ovaries of control animals and PI heifers. Furthermore, two developed embryos obtained from oocytes from one of the PI heifers were positive to BVDV, as well as two media from in vitro fertilization (IVF) procedures. The results of this study demonstrate that BVDV PI heifers exhibit alterations in follicular population through of the early interaction between the virus and germ cell line affecting directly the mechanisms involved in the ontogenesis of the ovary.


pmid: 11808702
title: Nylon membrane-immobilized PCR for detection of bovine viruses
abstract: Bridge Technology is an amplification technique in which pairs of primers are immobilized on a solid support, allowing amplification only at the location of the primer pair spot. The technique has diagnostic potential since an array of primer pairs, each specific for a different pathogen, can be used with a diagnostic sample without inter-pair interactions that plague the development of multiplex PCRs. As a result, one assay should be able to determine which of multiple pathogens are present and which are absent in each sample. As test material, we examined the specificity of detection of the RNA-containing bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and two DNA-containing bovine herpesviruses 1 and 2 (BHV-1 and BHV-2). Nylon membranes with two spots of UV-immobilized primer pairs--one for BVDV and one for BHV--were used in amplification with both corresponding templates, with each template singly and with no template. When amplification was assayed by chemiluminescent detection of incorporated DIG-nucleotides, the expected amplification patterns were obtained.


pmid: 19388645
title: Inhibition of subgenomic hepatitis C virus RNA replication by acridone derivatives: identification of an NS3 helicase inhibitor
abstract: We report the synthesis and structure-activity relationship (SAR) of a large series of acridones and acridone-fragment derivatives designed on the basis of the selective antihepatitis C virus (HCV) activity shown by acridone 2, previously studied as a potential antibovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) compound. The evaluation of their ability to inhibit the HCV replication in Huh-5-2 cells led to the identification of new, selective inhibitors. This indicates that the acridone skeleton, when properly functionalized, is a suitable scaffold to obtain potential anti-HCV agents. Interestingly, during identification of possible cellular and viral targets, it was discovered that compound 23 exerts inhibitory activity on the HCV NS3 helicase, a very promising target for the development of anti-HCV drugs.


pmid: 26479028
title: Synthesis, cytotoxicity and antiviral evaluation of new series of imidazo[4,5-g]quinoline and pyrido[2,3-g]quinoxalinone derivatives
abstract: Linear aromatic N-tricyclic compounds with promising antiviral activity and minimal cytotoxicity were prepared and analyzed in the last years. Specifically, the pyrido[2,3-g]quinoxalinone nucleus was found endowed with high potency against several pathogenic RNA viruses as etiological agents of important veterinary and human pathologies. Following our research program on new antiviral agents we have designed, synthesized and assayed new series of imidazo[4,5-g]quinoline and pyrido[2,3-g]quinoxalinone derivatives. Lead compounds 1-4 were further modified to enhance their antiviral activity and reduce their cytotoxicity. Thus, different substituents were introduced on N atom at position 1 or the O atom at position 2 of the leads; contextually, several groups were inserted on the nitrogen atom at position 7 of diaminoquinoline intermediates. Title compounds were tested in cell-based assays for cytotoxicity and antiviral activity against RNA virus families containing single-stranded (either positive-sense (ssRNA+) or negative-sense (ssRNA-)), and double-stranded genomes (dsRNA), and against two representatives of DNA virus families. Some derivatives emerged as potential leads for further development as antiviral agents against some viruses of public health significance, such as RSV, Reo, BVDV and HCV. Particularly, compounds 4, 11b, 11c, 13c, 15a, 18 and 21 resulted active against BVDV at concentrations ranging from 1.3 to 5 μM. Compound 21 was also evaluated for its activity on the BVDV RdRp. Compound 4 was also tested as potential anti-HCV compound in a subgenomic replication assay. Molecular simulation results provided a molecular rationale for the anti-BVDV activity of these compounds.


pmid: 10946143
title: Co-administration of IL-2 enhances antigen-specific immune responses following vaccination with DNA encoding the glycoprotein E2 of bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Induction of effective immunity requires the delivery of a protective antigen with appropriate co-stimulatory signals. For bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) this antigen is the major viral glycoprotein E2. Neutralising antibodies are directed towards the E2 protein and passive transfer of antibodies in serum or colostrum can completely protect against viral infection. DNA vaccination of mice with a construct encoding the E2 glycoprotein induced neutralising antibody levels that were potentially sufficient to prevent virus replication in a challenge system. The co-delivery of interleukin-2 (IL-2) further enhanced the levels of antibody raised. The strong IgG2a component of the antigen-specific antibody suggests a Th1 bias to the immune response induced following vaccination.


pmid: 27663380
title: Seroprevalence of respiratory viral pathogens of indigenous calves in Western Kenya
abstract: Most studies of infectious diseases in East African cattle have concentrated on gastro-intestinal parasites and vector-borne diseases. As a result, relatively little is known about viral diseases, except for those that are clinically symptomatic or which affect international trade such as foot and mouth disease, bluetongue and epizootic haemorrhagic disease. Here, we investigate the seroprevalence, distribution and relationship between the viruses involved in respiratory disease, infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBR), bovine parainfluenza virus Type 3 (PIV3) and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in East African Shorthorn Zebu calves. These viruses contribute to the bovine respiratory disease complex (BRD) which is responsible for major economic losses in cattle from intensive farming systems as a result of pneumonia. We found that calves experience similar risks of infection for IBR, PIV3, and BVDV with a seroprevalence of 20.9%, 20.1% and 19.8% respectively. We confirm that positive associations exist between IBR, PIV3 and BVDV; being seropositive for any one of these three viruses means that an individual is more likely to be seropositive for the other two viruses than expected by chance.


pmid: 26850846
title: Quantifying the risk of spread of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) between contiguous herds in Ireland
abstract: The control of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) mainly focuses on the identification and restriction of persistently infected (PI) animals. However, other transmission pathways can also result in new breakdowns, including the movement of animals pregnant with PI calves (Trojan animals) and the spread of infection between contiguous farms. Contiguous spread is likely an important problem in the BVD eradication programme in Ireland, given the spatial distribution of residual infection, and the highly fragmented nature of land holdings on many Irish farms. In this study, we seek to quantify the risk of BVD spread between contiguous herds in Ireland. Multivariable logistic models were used to estimate the risk of a herd having BVD positive calves in January to June 2014 (the study period) when contiguous to a herd that had at least one BVD positive calf born in 2013. The models included risk factors relating to the study herd and to neighbouring herds. Separate multivariable models were built for each of four "PI-neighbour" factors relating to the presence of BVD+ animals and/or the presence of offspring of PI breeding animals. In total, 58,483 study herds were enrolled. The final model contained the province, the log of the number of calf births born during the study period, the number of cattle purchased between January 2013 and January 2014, and with a two-way interaction between the number of animals of unknown BVD status in the study herd and the PI-neighbour risk factor. When the number of PI-neighbour herds was used as the PI-neighbour risk factor, the odds ratio (OR) associated with the number of PI-neighbour herds ranged from 1.07 to 3.02, depending on the number of unknown animals present. To further explore the risk associated with PI-neighbour factors, the models were repeated using a subset of the study herds (n=7440) that contained no animals of unknown status. The best fitting model including "any PI-neighbour" as the PI-neighbour factor and also contained the log of the number of calf births born during the study period and the number of cattle purchased. The OR associated with "any PI-neighbour" was 1.92 (95% C.I. 1.37-2.70). This study provides the first quantitative information on the risks posed by the presence of BVD+ animals in neighbouring herds and also highlights the importance of clarifying the BVD status of animals that have not yet been tested in the context of the Irish eradication programme.


pmid: 16831816
title: Control of template positioning during de novo initiation of RNA synthesis by the bovine viral diarrhea virus NS5B polymerase
abstract: The RNA-dependent RNA polymerase of the hepatitis C virus and the bovine viral diarrhea virus(BVDV)is able to initiate RNA synthesis denovo in the absence of a primer. Previous crystallographic data have pointed to the existence of a GTP-specific binding site (G-site) that is located in the vicinity of the active site of the BVDV enzyme. Here we have studied the functional role of the G-site and present evidence to show that specific GTP binding affects the positioning of the template during de novo initiation. Following the formation of the first phosphodiester bond, the polymerase translocates relative to the newly synthesized dinucleotide, which brings the 5'-end of the primer into the G-site, releasing the previously bound GTP. At this stage, the 3'-end of the template can remain opposite to the 5'-end of the primer or be repositioned to its original location before RNA synthesis proceeds. We show that the template can freely move between the two locations, and both complexes can isomerize to equilibrium. These data suggest that the bound GTP can stabilize the interaction between the 3'-end of the template and the priming nucleotide, preventing the template to overshoot and extend beyond the active site during de novo initiation. The hepatitis C virus enzyme utilizes a dinucleotide primer exclusively from the blunt end; the existence of a functionally equivalent G-site is therefore uncertain. For the BVDV polymerase we showed that de novo initiation is severely compromised by the T320A mutant that likely affects hydrogen bonding between the G-site and the guanine base. Dinucleotide-primed reactions are not influenced by this mutation, which supports the notion that the G-site is located in close proximity but not at the active site of the enzyme.


pmid: 15063124
title: An avirulent chimeric Pestivirus with altered cell tropism protects pigs against lethal infection with classical swine fever virus
abstract: A chimeric Pestivirus was constructed using an infectious cDNA clone of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) [J. Virol. 70 (1996) 8606]. After deletion of the envelope protein E2-encoding region, the respective sequence of classical swine fever virus (CSFV) strain Alfort 187 was inserted in-frame resulting in plasmid pA/CP7_E2alf. After transfection of in vitro-transcribed CP7_E2alf RNA, autonomous replication of chimeric RNA in bovine and porcine cell cultures was observed. Efficient growth of chimeric CP7_E2alf virus, however, could only be demonstrated on porcine cells, and in contrast to the parental BVDV strain CP7, CP7_E2alf only inefficiently infected and propagated in bovine cells. The virulence, immunogenicity, and "marker vaccine" properties of the generated chimeric CP7_E2alf virus were determined in an animal experiment using 27 pigs. After intramuscular inoculation of 1 x 10(7) TCID(50), CP7_E2alf proved to be completely avirulent, and neither viremia nor virus transmission to contact animals was observed; however, CSFV-specific neutralizing antibodies were detected from day 11 after inoculation. In addition, sera from all animals reacted positive in an E2-specific CSFV-antibody ELISA, but were negative for CSFV-E(RNS)-specific antibodies as determined with a CSFV marker ELISA. After challenge infection with highly virulent CSFV strain Eystrup, pigs immunized with CP7_E2alf were fully protected against clinical signs of CSFV infection, viremia, and shedding of challenge virus, and almost all animals scored positive in a CSFV marker ELISA. From our results, we conclude that chimeric CP7_E2alf may not only serve as a tool for a better understanding of Pestivirus attachment, entry, and assembly, but also represents an innocuous and efficacious modified live CSFV "marker vaccine".


pmid: 31353402
title: Effects of endophyte-infected tall fescue seed and protein supplementation on stocker steers: II. Adaptive and innate immune function
abstract: Fescue toxicosis is a multifaceted syndrome common in cattle grazing endophyte-infected tall fescue that affects performance; however, little information is available pertaining to its effects on immunity. Recently, it has been shown that supplemental CP can improve performance in weaned steers postvaccination. Thus, the objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of supplemental CP on innate and adaptive immune responses in stocker steers chronically exposed to ergovaline. Angus steers (n = 12 pens; 3 steers/pen) were stratified by weight and assigned to a 2 × 2 factorial arrangement to examine crude protein levels of supplement (14% or 18%) and ergovaline exposure (0 or 185 μg ergovaline/kg BW/d via ground endophyte-free (EF) or endophyte-infected (EI) tall fescue seed, respectively) on immune response. Consumption of low to moderate concentration of ergovaline from EI tall fescue seed was sufficient to induce mild symptoms associated with fescue toxicosis. Blood samples were collected at day 0, 42, and 56 to evaluate infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type 1b titers following vaccine challenge. Additionally, serum cytokine concentrations were evaluated using Quantibody Bovine Cytokine Arrays on day 0, 28, and 42. Data were analyzed using PROC MIXED of SAS with repeated measures. Regardless of treatment, no differences were observed in IBR and BVDV-1b seroconversion following vaccine challenge (P > 0.05). Regardless of crude protein concentration, EI steers had greater concentrations of proinflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IFN-γ, IL-1α), chemokines (CCL2, CCL4, MIG), anti-inflammatory cytokines (IL-2, -13, -15, -21), and various growth factors (FGF-1, IGF-1, VEGF-A) when compared to EF steers (P < 0.05). Furthermore, VEGF-A and IGF-1 concentrations were greater in EI-14 steers on day 28 compared to EI-18, EF-14, and EF-18 steers (P < 0.05), however, this difference was not observed on day 0 or 42 (P > 0.05). Based on these data, steers exposed to ergovaline have an increase in pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines and supplemental CP had minimal impact to mitigate this response. However, in the current study, exposure to ergovaline had little to no effect on adaptive immunity and response to vaccination. Together, chronic exposure to ergovaline results in a hyperactive innate immune response, which may lead to an immuno-compromised animal.


pmid: 21897105
title: Development of a novel diagnostic test for detection of bovine viral diarrhea persistently infected animals using hair
abstract: The purpose of this study was to determine whether manually plucked hairs might serve as an alternative sample for a quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) testing. Twenty three, 1~3 week old, non-bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) vaccinated calves, found to be positive for BVDV by immunohistochemical staining, were selected and hairs were manually plucked from the ear. qRT-PCR was performed on samples consisting of more than 30 hairs (30~100) and whole blood. All 23 animals were positive for the virus by qRT-PCR performed on the whole blood and when samples of more than 30 hairs were assayed. Additionally, qRT-PCR was performed on groups of 10 and 20 hairs harvested from 7 out of 23 immunohistochemical staining-positive calves. When groups of 20 and 10 hairs were tested, 6 and 4 animals, respectively, were positive for the virus.


pmid: 18691836
title: Normal reproductive capacity of heifers that originated from in vitro fertilized embryos cultured with an antiviral compound
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) can associate with in vitro fertilized (IVF) bovine embryos despite washing and trypsin treatment. An antiviral compound, DB606 (2-(4-[2-imidazolinyl]phenyl)-5-(4-methoxyphenyl)furan), inhibits the replication of BVDV in bovine uterine tubal epithelial cells, Madin Darby bovine kidney cells, and fetal fibroblast cells. As well, DB606 in in vitro culture medium does not affect embryonic development. Antiviral-treated-IVF embryos placed into recipients developed into clinically normal calves. The objective of this project was to determine if these resultant heifer calves were capable of reproducing. Seven heifers from each of the treatment groups (natural breeding, IVF embryo, and IVF embryo cultured in DB606) of the previous study were used. At 20-27 months of age, the heifers were exposed to a fertile bull in a single pasture during a 63 d breeding season. Five of the seven heifers originating from natural breeding were pregnant 35 d after removal of the bull and calved. All of the heifers resulting from transfer of untreated IVF embryos were pregnant at 35 d; however, one aborted the fetus at 5-7 months of gestation. All of the heifers derived from transfer of IVF embryos cultured in DB606 were pregnant and calved. Offspring from dams of all treatment groups were clinically normal at birth. Adjusted 205 d weaning weights were not significantly different among the offspring of the treated and untreated dams. These results indicate that culture of bovine-IVF embryos in DB606 does not impair future reproductive capacity of resulting heifers.


pmid: 11719986
title: Identification of pestiviruses contaminating cell lines and fetal calf sera
abstract: Three pestiviruses in fetal calf serum (FCS), a pestivirus in porcine ST cell line, and two pestiviruses in two of five bovine cell lines were detected by RT-PCR method employing panpestivirus primers selected from the 5'-non-coding region (5'-NCR). The 288 bp products were sequenced in both directions. To identify these pestiviruses, their nucleotide sequences and those of reference pestiviruses were used for construction of a dendrogram. Three viruses present in FCS and a virus present in the bovine RP-15 cell line were identified as bovine viral diarrhea virus I (BVDV-1). Bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 (BVDV-2) was identified in a batch of the bovine MDBK cell line. A pestivirus contaminating the porcine ST cell line was identified as a Border disease virus (BDV).


pmid: 8795011
title: Genetic identification of pestivirus strain Frijters as a border disease virus from pigs
abstract: A pig pestivirus isolate, the Frijters strain, was characterized by using reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR), followed by RFLP and direct sequencing of the amplicons. Restriction endonuclease enzyme AvaI and Bg/I digestion of 5' NC genomic region PCR products suggested that Frijters strain belongs to the border disease viruses (BDV). This finding was confirmed by nucleotide sequencing of the amplified part of the 5-NC genomic region, which revealed 94% and 95% nucleotide similarity between the Frijters strain and the BDV prototype strains Moredun cp and Moredun ncp, respectively. On the other hand, 55-77% nucleotide identity was observed between the Frijters strain and prototypes of BVDV and CSFV. The amino acid similarity in the Npro (p20) region was 89% between Frijters and the Moredun strains and 70-77% between Frijters and the BVDV of CSFV strains. It was concluded that the Frijters virus is a member of the BDV group of the Pestivirus genus. Considering that this virus circulates in the large swine populations of Europe, the spread of certain pestiviruses to more than one animal species should not be considered sporadic. Since the presence of BDV in swine herds might be a confusing factor during classical swine fever eradication programmes, highly specific methods are required for reliable identification of these isolates. RT-PCR, followed by RFLP and sequencing of the amplicons proved to be a reliable approach for the rapid detection and identification of pestiviruses.


pmid: 8604543
title: Differentiation of classical swine fever virus (CSFV) strains using monoclonal antibodies against structural glycoproteins
abstract: Two panels of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against the classical swine fever virus (CSFV) envelope glycoproteins E2 (12 mAbs) and E0 (11 mAbs) were established and tested by immunoperoxidase binding assay against 135 pestivirus strains and isolates. Variability of the binding pattern was demonstrated for CSFV and also for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strains and isolates. The panels of mAbs against E2 and E0 led to very different reactivity patterns. Particular mAbs against E2 reacted with (i) all CSFV isolates, (ii) only 4 out of 126 CSFV isolates, or (iii) about 90% of the tested CSFV isolates and 78% of ruminant pestivirus isolates. Anti CSFV E0 mAbs allowed the detection of a greater variability among the CSFV strains and isolates than the anti E2 mAbs. None of the 11 anti E0 mAbs recognized an epitope conserved for CSFV or showed crossreactivity with ruminant pestiviruses. The use of both panels of mAbs against two CSFV structural glycoproteins led to the discrimination of 21 antigenic types of CSFV strains and isolates. The described panels can be used to trace the origin of CSFV after outbreaks of the disease.


pmid: 2169681
title: Pathogenesis of mucosal disease and molecular aspects of bovine virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: Studies carried out over three decades, on the pathogenesis and epidemiology of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV), have provided the basis for our understanding of the aetiology of mucosal disease. Experimental reproduction of the disease has demonstrated the mechanism of sequential infection and the role of the two virus biotypes. The need for "homogeneity" between the biotypes, causing mucosal disease, has demonstrated the precision of immunotolerance. The origin of the cytopathogenic biotype remains unclear but molecular studies may provide the solution. Recent findings have revealed the absence of an 80 kDa polypeptide in the non-cytopathogenic isolates. This protein is related to the 120 kDa polypeptide that is present in both biotypes. Genomic sequences for two isolates have been reported. An extensive homology to the protein ubiquitin has been identified only within the Osloss sequence in the region flanking coding sequences for the 80 kDa and 120 kDa proteins. Advances in the development of molecular gene probes and monoclonal antibodies will provide new tools for furthering our understanding of the pathogenesis, epidemiology and interrelationships of pestiviruses that infect pigs, cattle and sheep.


pmid: 34834943
title: Identification and Genetic Characterization of Viral Pathogens in Ruminant Gestation Abnormalities, Israel, 2015-2019
abstract: Infectious agents including viruses are important abortifacients and can cause fetal abnormalities in livestock animals. Here, samples that had been collected in Israel from aborted or malformed ruminant fetuses between 2015 and 2019 were investigated for the presence of the following viruses: the reoviruses bluetongue virus (BTV) and epizootic hemorrhagic disease virus (EHDV), the flaviviruses bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and border disease virus (BDV), the peribunyaviruses Shuni virus (SHUV) and Akabane virus (AKAV), bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BoHV-1) and bovine ephemeral fever virus (BEFV). Domestic (cattle, sheep, goat) and wild/zoo ruminants were included in the study. The presence of viral nucleic acid or antigen could be confirmed in 21.8 % of abnormal pregnancies (213 out of 976 investigated cases), with peribunyaviruses, reoviruses and pestiviruses being the most prevalent. At least four different BTV serotypes were involved in abnormal courses of pregnancy in Israel. The subtyping of pestiviruses revealed the presence of two BDV and several distinct BVDV type 1 strains. The peribunyaviruses AKAV and SHUV were identified annually throughout the study period, however, variation in the extent of virus circulation could be observed between the years. In 2018, AKAV even represented the most detected pathogen in cases of small domestic ruminant gestation abnormalities. In conclusion, it was shown that various viruses are involved in abnormal courses of pregnancy in ruminants in Israel.


pmid: 12601762
title: Virus-inhibiting surgical glove to reduce the risk of infection by enveloped viruses
abstract: Needle puncture and other accidents that occur during surgery and other procedures may lead to viral infections of medical personnel, notably by hepatitis C (HCV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), now that hepatitis B can be prevented by vaccination. A new surgical glove called G-VIR, which contains a disinfecting agent for enveloped viruses, has been developed. Herpes simplex type 1 (HSV) was used as a standard enveloped virus in both in vitro and in vivo tests of the virucidal capacity of the glove. Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) were used as models for HCV and HIV, respectively. For in vitro study, a contaminated needle was passed through a glove and residual virus was titrated; for in vivo studies, animals were stuck with a contaminated needle through a glove. Despite variation in virus enumeration inherent in the puncture technique, statistical evaluation showed that infection was reproducibly and substantially reduced by passage through the virucidal layer. For BVDV, the amount of virus passing through the virucidal glove was reduced in 82% of pairwise comparisons with control gloves that lacked the virucidal agent; when plaque counts were adjusted to a common dilution, the median count for the virucidal glove was on the average reduced >10-fold. In experiments in which the proportion of wells infected with FIV was measured, the ratio of TCID(50) values (control glove to G-VIR) was >15, and probably much higher. For HSV, the amount of virus passing through the virucidal glove was reduced in 81% of comparisons with control gloves; the median of adjusted plaque counts was reduced on the average approximately eightfold or ninefold. In vivo tests with FIV and HSV in cats and mice, respectively, found smaller percentage reductions in infection than the in vitro tests but confirmed the virucidal effect of the gloves.


pmid: 11090160
title: Deletions of structural glycoprotein E2 of classical swine fever virus strain alfort/187 resolve a linear epitope of monoclonal antibody WH303 and the minimal N-terminal domain essential for binding immunoglobulin G antibodies of a pig hyperimmune serum
abstract: The major structural glycoprotein E2 of classical swine fever virus (CSFV) is responsible for eliciting neutralizing antibodies and conferring protective immunity. The current structural model of this protein predicts its surface-exposed region at the N terminus with a short stretch of the C-terminal residues spanning the membrane envelope. In this study, the N-terminal region of 221 amino acids (aa) covering aa 690 to 910 of the CSFV strain Alfort/187 E2, expressed as a fusion product in Escherichia coli, was shown to contain the epitope recognized by a monoclonal antibody (WH303) with affinity for various CSFV strains but not for the other members of the Pestivirus genus, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and border disease virus (BDV). This region also contains the sites recognized by polyclonal immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies of a pig hyperimmune serum. Serial deletions of this region precisely defined the epitope recognized by WH303 to be TAVSPTTLR (aa 829 to 837) of E2. Comparison of the sequences around the WH303-binding site among the E2 proteins of pestiviruses indicated that the sequence TAVSPTTLR is strongly conserved in CSFV strains but highly divergent among BVDV and BDV strains. These results provided a structural basis for the reactivity patterns of WH303 and also useful information for the design of a peptide containing this epitope for potential use in the detection and identification of CSFV. By deletion analysis, an antigenic domain capable of reacting with pig polyclonal IgG was found 17 aa from the WH303 epitope within the N-terminal 123 residues (aa 690 to 812). Small N- or C-terminal deletions introduced into the domain disrupt its reactivity with pig polyclonal IgG, suggesting that this is the minimal antigenic domain required for binding to pig antibodies. This domain could have eliminated or reduced the cross-reactivity with other pestiviruses and may thus have an application for the serological detection of CSFV infection; evaluation of this is now possible, since the domain has been expressed in E. coli in large amounts and purified to homogeneity by chromatographic methods.


pmid: 10416365
title: Health status of bulls used for natural breeding on farms in south west Scotland
abstract: One hundred and nine breeding bulls were examined during the period November 1992 to June 1993 on farms in south west Scotland for evidence of infectious diseases associated with breeding. Preputial washings were collected to screen for Campylobacter fetus venerialis, together with serial blood samples to assess their seroprevalence to Bovine Virus Diarrhoea virus (BVDv), Bovine Herpes Virus-1 (BHV-1), Leptospira hardjo and Bovine Herpes Virus-4 (BHV-4). The possible impact of natural mating on the epidemiology of these diseases is described. Evidence of infections with Campylobacter fetus and BVH-4 were not found in this sample. The overall seroprevalence to BVDv was 78%, for BHV-1 49%, and L. hardjo 27% at titres of > or = 1/400. This study shows that bulls may be responsible for the introduction and dissemination of these diseases when moved from farm to farm as part of normal cattle breeding in this area. Young unproven bulls may be particularly susceptible to endemic diseases associated with lowered reproductive performance.


pmid: 25746154
title: Simultaneous detection of five notifiable viral diseases of cattle by single-tube multiplex real-time RT-PCR
abstract: Multiplexed real-time PCR (qPCR) assays enable the detection of several target genes in a single reaction, which is applicable for simultaneous testing for the most important viral diseases in samples obtained from ruminants with unspecific clinical symptoms. Here, reverse transcription qPCR (RT-qPCR) systems for the detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and bluetongue virus (BTV) were combined with an internal control system based on the beta-actin gene. Additionally, a background screening for three further major pathogens of cloven-hoofed animals reportable to the World Organisation for Animal Health, namely foot-and-mouth disease virus, epizootic haemorrhagic disease virus, and Rift Valley fever virus, was integrated using the identical fluorophore for the respective RT-qPCR assays. Every pathogen-specific assay had an analytical sensitivity of at least 100 genome copies per reaction within the multiplex approach, and a series of reference samples and clinical specimens obtained from cattle, but also from small ruminants, were detected reliably. The qPCR systems integrated in the background screening were even not influenced by the simultaneous amplification of very high BVDV and BTV genome copy numbers. The newly developed multiplex qPCR allows the specific and sensitive detection of five of the most important diseases of ruminants and could be used in the context of monitoring programs or for differential diagnostics.


pmid: 27931934
title: Assessing the impact of tailored biosecurity advice on farmer behaviour and pathogen presence in beef herds in England and Wales
abstract: The term 'biosecurity' encompasses many measures farmers can take to reduce the risk of pathogen incursion or spread. As the best strategy will vary between settings, veterinarians play an important role in assessing risk and providing advice, but effectiveness requires farmer acceptance and implementation. The aim of this study was to assess the effectiveness of specifically-tailored biosecurity advice packages in reducing endemic pathogen presence on UK beef suckler farms. One hundred and sixteen farms recruited by 10 veterinary practices were followed for three years. Farms were randomly allocated to intervention (receiving specifically-tailored advice, with veterinarians and farmers collaborating to develop an improved biosecurity strategy) or control (receiving general advice) groups. A spreadsheet-based tool was used annually to attribute a score to each farm reflecting risk of entry or spread of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV1), Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis (MAP), Leptospira interrogans serovar hardjo (L. hardjo) and Mycobacterium bovis (M. bovis). Objectives of these analyses were to identify evidence of reduction in risk behaviours during the study, as well as evidence of reductions in pathogen presence, as indications of effectiveness. Risk behaviours and pathogen prevalences were examined across study years, and on intervention compared with control farms, using descriptive statistics and multilevel regression. There were significant reductions in risk scores for all five pathogens, regardless of intervention status, in every study year compared with the outset. Animals on intervention farms were significantly less likely than those on control farms to be seropositive for BVDV in years 2 and 3 and for L. hardjo in year 3 of the study. Variations by study year in animal-level odds of seropositivity to BHV1 or MAP were not associated with farm intervention status. All farms had significantly reduced odds of BHV1 seropositivity in year 2 than at the outset. Variations in farm-level MAP seropositivity were not associated with intervention status. There were increased odds of M. bovis on intervention farms compared with control farms at the end of the study. Results suggest a structured annual risk assessment process, conducted as a collaboration between veterinarian and farmer, is valuable in encouraging improved biosecurity practices. There were some indications, but not conclusive evidence, that tailored biosecurity advice packages have potential to reduce pathogen presence. These findings will inform development of a collaborative approach to biosecurity between veterinarians and farmers, including adoption of cost-effective strategies effective across pathogens.


pmid: 29429483
title: A cost-benefit analysis and the potential trade effects of the bovine viral diarrhoea eradication programme in Styria, Austria
abstract: This study evaluated the voluntary and compulsory implementation of a bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) eradication programme in the Austrian Federal State of Styria, Austria, from an economic point of view using ex-post assessment of costs and benefits (disease losses avoided). An economic net benefit (benefit:cost ratio, BCR=1.18) of the programme was demonstrated during the voluntary programme phase (January 1998-July 2004). The break-even point was reached in 2003. If investments in the compulsory programme (August 2004-December 2016) were taken into account, a net economic loss (BCR=0.16) was demonstrated. In contrast to on-going annual testing of all cattle herds, annual testing in accordance with a revised sampling scheme could reduce total surveillance costs by more than 77%. A Bayesian structural time series model was applied to analyse a hypothesised positive impact of the compulsory BVDV programme on the Styrian cattle export market. The average number of exported cows and bulls increased significantly by 42% (P=0.03) and 47% (P=0.01), respectively, and the producer price increased by 14% (P=0.00) and 5% (P=0.16), respectively, during the compulsory programme period compared with the period prior to intervention. This equates to an average revenue increase of €29,754 for cows and €137,563 for bulls per month. These results justify the implementation of eradication programmes, which initially may not appear to be economically viable, particularly if trade effects are not included in the calculations.


pmid: 29363285
title: Modelling the variation in skin-test tuberculin reactions, post-mortem lesion counts and case pathology in tuberculosis-exposed cattle: Effects of animal characteristics, histories and co-infection
abstract: Correctly identifying bovine tuberculosis (bTB) in cattle remains a significant problem in endemic countries. We hypothesized that animal characteristics (sex, age, breed), histories (herd effects, testing, movement) and potential exposure to other pathogens (co-infection; BVDV, liver fluke and Mycobacterium avium reactors) could significantly impact the immune responsiveness detected at skin testing and the variation in post-mortem pathology (confirmation) in bTB-exposed cattle. Three model suites were developed using a retrospective observational data set of 5,698 cattle culled during herd breakdowns in Northern Ireland. A linear regression model suggested that antemortem tuberculin reaction size (difference in purified protein derivative avium [PPDa] and bovine [PPDb] reactions) was significantly positively associated with post-mortem maximum lesion size and the number of lesions found. This indicated that reaction size could be considered a predictor of both the extent (number of lesions/tissues) and the pathological progression of infection (maximum lesion size). Tuberculin reaction size was related to age class, and younger animals (<2.85 years) displayed larger reaction sizes than older animals. Tuberculin reaction size was also associated with breed and animal movement and increased with the time between the penultimate and disclosing tests. A negative binomial random-effects model indicated a significant increase in lesion counts for animals with M. avium reactions (PPDb-PPDa < 0) relative to non-reactors (PPDb-PPDa = 0). Lesion counts were significantly increased in animals with previous positive severe interpretation skin-test results. Animals with increased movement histories, young animals and non-dairy breed animals also had significantly increased lesion counts. Animals from herds that had BVDV-positive cattle had significantly lower lesion counts than animals from herds without evidence of BVDV infection. Restricting the data set to only animals with a bTB visible lesion at slaughter (n = 2471), an ordinal regression model indicated that liver fluke-infected animals disclosed smaller lesions, relative to liver fluke-negative animals, and larger lesions were disclosed in animals with increased movement histories.


pmid: 25108838
title: Insertion and stable expression of Gaussia luciferase gene by the genome of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: As a tool to address selected issues of virus biology, we constructed a recombinant cDNA clone of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) expressing Gaussia luciferase (Gluc) reporter gene. A full-length genomic cDNA clone of a non-cytopathic BVDV isolate was assembled by recombination in yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The Gluc gene was inserted between the N(pro) and Core protein coding regions by recombination. The cDNA transcribed in vitro was infectious upon transfection of MDBK cells, resulting in reporter gene expression and productive virus replication. The rescued viruses were stable for 15 passages in cell culture, maintaining the replication kinetics, focus size and morphology similar to those of the parental virus. Expression and correct processing of the reporter protein were also maintained, as demonstrated by Gluc activity. These results demonstrate that genes up to 555 bp are simply assembled by a single step in yeast recombination and are stably expressed by this cDNA clone.


pmid: 21115049
title: Swine adipose stromal cells loaded with recombinant bovine herpesvirus 4 virions expressing a foreign antigen induce potent humoral immune responses in pigs
abstract: Increasingly effective vaccination strategies are needed to counteract the high incidence of contagious diseases associated with intensive swine breeding. Recombinant viral vaccines are a promising new avenue in this direction. Key features of viral vectors suitable for immunoprophylaxis are safety, ease of manipulation and the ability to replicate in a variety of hosts. Most of the above requirements are met by bovine herpesvirus 4 (BoHV-4), a non-pathogenic dsDNA virus capable of infecting a broad range of cell types in vitro. Here we report the results of an exploratory study using an engineered BoHV-4 virus (eBoHV-4) expressing two unrelated glycoprotein antigens from bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and bovine herpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1), to assess the potential of recombinant BoHV-4 as a self-adjuvanted immunogen in pigs. Free eBoHV-4 virions and virions preloaded into homologous swine adipose-derived stromal cells (SADSC) were tested. Neither virus formulation elicited neutralizing anti-BoHV-4 antibodies, nor any disease symptom, yet both induced specific immune responses against the heterologous antigens. However, a much earlier (18 vs 28 days post-infection) and more robust neutralizing response against BVDV and BoHV-1 viruses was elicited by eBoHV-4-preinfected SADSCs compared to free virions. The data validate BoHV-4 as a safe and effective heterologous antigen carrier/producer and identify SADSCs as helpful tools for the formulation of increasingly efficacious recombinant immunogens for pig vaccination.


pmid: 17459828
title: Development and application of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for detection of bovine viral diarrhea antibody based on Erns glycoprotein expressed in a baculovirus system
abstract: The BVDV envelope glycoprotein E(rns)/gp48 and the C terminal 79 amino acids of the capsid protein coding region were expressed in a baculovirus system and antigenically characterized. Western blot assay was used to detect recombinant E(rns) (r-E(rns)) in infected insect cells using specific monoclonal antibodies. The r-E(rns) was then used in an indirect ELISA to detect BVDV specific antibodies in a panel of 540 well-characterized sera. Results of the r-E(rns) ELISA were compared to those obtained with a commercially available competitive ELISA targeting anti-NS2/3 antibodies. A good correlation was observed between the 2 ELISA (kappa = 0.916, 95% C.I.: 0.876, 0.956). Using the commercial NS2/3 ELISA as the reference test, the relative sensitivity of r-E(rns) ELISA was 97.5% (95% C.I.: 94.3%, 99.1%) and the relative specificity was 93.9% (95% C.I.: 89.4%, 96.9%), while relative specificity was 100% (95% C.I.: 97%, 100%) using true negative sera (derived from a negative herd). All but 1 antigen positive animals (n = 36) tested negative in the r-E(rns) ELISA; among them all 22 confirmed PI animals were negative by r-E(rns) ELISA. The ability of r-E(rns) ELISA to identify cattle immunized with inactivated vaccine was also demonstrated in a small group of cattle, compared to an NS2/3 antibody ELISA. Results suggest that r-E(rns) ELISA represents an alternative test for antibody generated by natural infection or BVDV vaccination.


pmid: 14749175
title: Phylogenetic analysis of bovine viral diarrhea viruses using five different genetic regions
abstract: Phylogenetic analysis of the five different regions (5' non-coding region (5'NCR), N(pro), E2, NS3 and NS5B-3'NCR) of 48 Japanese and reported bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) genomes was performed. Japanese BVDVs were segregated into BVDV1 subdivided into six subgroups and BVDV2. One isolate, So CP/75, isolated in 1975 and previously proposed as subgroup 1e according to its 5'NCR sequence, was quite unique and formed an independent lineage in the tree of any region. Another isolate, 190CP, obtained from an experimental mucosal disease case was classified as subgroup 1e, defined by Becher et al. in the 5'NCR, N(pro) and E2 regions, whereas it was classified as subgroup 1a in the NS5B-3'NCR region. The genomic sequences of the American isolates ILLC and ILLNC obtained from the GenBank database were assigned into subgroup 1b in the 5'NCR, N(pro), E2 and NS5B-3'NCR regions, whereas they were assigned into subgroup 1a in the NS3 region, suggesting that recombination between the virus strains classified into different subgroups had occurred in an animal. These findings suggest that phylogenetic analysis of several genetic regions is useful for the further characterization of field BVDV isolates.


pmid: 12499198
title: Ribonucleoside analogue that blocks replication of bovine viral diarrhea and hepatitis C viruses in culture
abstract: A base-modified nucleoside analogue, beta-D-N(4)-hydroxycytidine (NHC), was found to have antipestivirus and antihepacivirus activities. This compound inhibited the production of cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) RNA in a dose-dependant manner with a 90% effective concentration (EC(90)) of 5.4 microM, an observation that was confirmed by virus yield assays (EC(90) = 2 microM). When tested for hepatitis C virus (HCV) replicon RNA reduction in Huh7 cells, NHC had an EC(90) of 5 microM on day 4. The HCV RNA reduction was incubation time and nucleoside concentration dependent. The in vitro antiviral effect of NHC was additive with recombinant alpha interferon-2a and could be prevented by the addition of exogenous cytidine and uridine but not of other natural ribo- or 2'-deoxynucleosides. When HCV RNA replicon cells were cultured in the presence of increasing concentrations of NHC (up to 40 micro M) for up to 45 cell passages, no resistant replicon was selected. Similarly, resistant BVDV could not be selected after 20 passages. NHC was phosphorylated to the triphosphate form in Huh7 cells, but in cell-free HCV NS5B assays, synthetic NHC-triphosphate (NHC-TP) did not inhibit the polymerization reaction. Instead, NHC-TP appeared to serve as a weak alternative substrate for the viral polymerase, thereby changing the mobility of the product in polyacrylamide electrophoresis gels. We speculate that incorporated nucleoside analogues with the capacity of changing the thermodynamics of regulatory secondary structures (with or without introducing mutations) may represent an important class of new antiviral agents for the treatment of RNA virus infections, especially HCV.


pmid: 28092611
title: Prevalence of Bovine herpesvirus type 4 in aborting dairy cows
abstract: Bovine herpesvirus type 4 (BHV-4) is related to many different conditions: infertility, postpartal metritis, vulvovaginitis, mastitis, encephalitis, calf pneumonia, keratoconjunctivitis, cutaneous lesions, digital dermatitis and abortion. In this study a retrospective PCR examination of 100 extracted DNA samples from aborting cows was performed in order to determine: prevalence of BHV-4 in abortive cattle, whether coinfections BHV-4 with other abortifacient pathogens are present in the same sample and to determine the month of gestation when BHV-4 associated abortions were detected. Out of 100 examined samples, the BHV-4 genome was detected in 21 samples (21%). In two samples we detected coinfection of BHV-4 with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and in one with Neospora caninum. Most of the BHV-4-associated abortions were detected during the seventh month of gestation. It was concluded that an active BHV-4 infection was present among cows that aborted on the farms examined. The high prevalence of the BHV-4 genome in abortion material suggests that this virus may have cause the abortions. Further studies and examinations are needed to establish causative connection between presence of BHV-4 and abortion.


pmid: 7550401
title: Partial sequencing of hog cholera virus Alfort strain genome and its comparison with other pestivirus strains
abstract: After molecular RNA cloning of the Alfort strain (Alfort/LCRV) of hog cholera virus (HCV), the nucleotide sequence of about 70% of the total genome was determined. This sequence was compared with homologous parts of previously published pestivirus genomes. The average homology with another clone of the Alfort strain (Alfort/FRC) was found to be lower (86.1%) than with Brescia strain of HCV (94.3%), while, compared with NADL, Osloss and SD-1 (3 different strains of bovine viral diarrhea virus, BVDV), the average homology was 67%. Although the amino-acid sequences show a higher degree of conservation, they had a similar degree of homology (92.7, 96.7, 69, 68.2 and 69%, respectively). Partial sequence comparison also revealed that Alfort/LCRV strain was more closely related to Alfort 187 (98.6% for the nucleotides and amino acids) and Weybridge (97.3% for the nucleotides and 96.1% for the amino acids) strains of HCV than it was to Alfort/FRC. These results may indicate that the Alfort/FRC strain has undergone more genomic variations during its historical passage. Genomic relationships among the pestiviruses are discussed.


pmid: 8017174
title: Porencephaly, hydranencephaly and leukoencephalopathy in ovine fetuses following transplacental infection with bovine virus diarrhoea virus: distribution of viral antigen and characterization of cellular response
abstract: The distribution of viral antigen, histological lesions and inflammatory responses were examined in brains from ovine fetuses following experimental transplacental infection with a cytopathogenic strain of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV). At 10 and 14 days post inoculation (p.i.) viral antigen-containing cells were found throughout the different zones of the developing telencephalon and cerebellum. Corresponding to the distribution of viral antigen, necrotic lesions both of already differentiated and of undifferentiated fetal brain cells occurred. The extent and severity of microscopic lesions correlated positively with the number of viral antigen-containing cells. The destructive lesions were accompanied by meningeal and parenchymal cellular infiltrations predominantly with phagocytosing macrophages. In fetuses examined at 21 days p.i. a massive necrosis of the cerebral hemispheres and severe infiltrations with macrophages and CD3-positive lymphocytes had developed. In fetuses studied between 32 and 80 days p.i. porencephaly, hydranencephaly and leukoencephalomalacic lesions were present. In brain tissue of these fetuses, with the exception of two cases, BVD viral antigen was no longer detected.


pmid: 8117439
title: Validation of virus inactivation and removal for the manufacturing procedure of two immunoglobulins and a 5% serum protein solution treated with beta-propiolactone
abstract: Intravenous immunoglobulins and serum protein solutions are manufactured from human plasma pools of healthy, screened donors. A step-by-step validation of virus removal and/or inactivation was performed for the manufacturing process, which includes cold ethanol fractionation, beta-propiolactone (beta-PL) treatment, UV irradiation, thermal inactivation and other chemical and physical purification steps. The total viral clearance factors achieved for the entire manufacturing process were by several magnitudes greater than the potential virus load of current plasma pools. Human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1) infectivity was reduced by > 13.4 log for 7S immunoglobulin, > 15.3 log for IGM enriched immunoglobulin and > 16 log for a 5% serum protein solution. In addition, high clearance rate for a broad spectrum of model viruses was demonstrated for all three blood derivatives being > 23.2 to > 27.8 log for pseudo rabies virus (PSR), > 12.3 to > 22.6 log for vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) and 6.9-10.6 log for simian virus 40 (SV40). For the beta-propiolactone inactivation step Hepatitis C model viruses, e.g. equine arteritis virus (EAV) and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) were also investigated.


pmid: 8384762
title: RNA insertions and gene duplications in the nonstructural protein p125 region of pestivirus strains and isolates in vitro and in vivo
abstract: Sixteen cytopathogenic (cp) bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) strains/isolates were screened for the existence of RNA insertions in the p125 gene region and/or for p80 gene duplications using the polymerase chain reaction after reverse transcription. Three strains/isolates were shown to contain insertions, and in three others gene duplications were demonstrated. One strain was shown to contain a gene duplication in addition to an insertion. Insertions or duplications were absent in the genomes of 10 non-cp BVD virus strains/isolates, in 4 hog cholera (HC) virus strains, and in 9 of the 16 cp BVD virus strains/isolates analyzed. These results indicate that RNA insertions and gene duplications, although significant, are not the only mechanism contributing to cytopathogenicity in vitro. The RT-PCR was also applied to RNA isolated from tissues of a calf suffering from mucosal disease. Insertion-containing amplification products could be demonstrated in an organ-specific pattern.


pmid: 11457995
title: Establishment of persistent infection with non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhoea virus in cattle is associated with a failure to induce type I interferon
abstract: The establishment of persistent infections with non-cytopathic bovine virus diarrhoea virus (ncpBVDV) is crucial for the maintenance of BVDV in cattle populations. Also, super-infection of persistently infected individuals with antigenically homologous cytopathic BVDV (cpBVDV) results in fatal mucosal disease. Persistent infection with ncpBVDV is established by infection of the foetus during the first trimester of pregnancy. It has been shown previously that foetal infection with cpBVDV does not result in persistent infection. Infection of cells in vitro has demonstrated that cpBVDV induces type I interferon (IFN), whereas ncpBVDV fails to induce IFN. In this study we demonstrate that foetal challenge with cpBVDV results in IFN production, whereas ncpBVDV does not. These findings strongly suggest that the ability of ncpBVDV to inhibit the induction of type I IFN has evolved to enable the virus to establish persistent infection in the early foetus.


pmid: 10652175
title: Virus safety of avital bone tissue transplants: evaluation of sterilization steps of spongiosa cuboids using a peracetic acid-methanol mixture
abstract: The aim of this study was to validate the virus-inactivating/eliminating capacity of the manufacturing process of spongiosa cuboids. Both the sterilization step with peracetic acid (PAA)/ethanol and the defatting step of bones with chloroform/methanol (2:1, v/v) were investigated. Relevant enveloped, non-enveloped, and model viruses belonging to different virus families were included in the investigation: human immunodeficiency virus type 2 (HIV-2), hepatitis A virus (HAV), poliovirus (PV-1), pseudorabies virus (PRV), porcine parvovirus (PPV), and bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV). Treatment of virus-spiked spongiosa cuboids for 4 hours at room temperature (RT) with 1% PAA/24% ethanol (PES) efficiently inactivated most viruses. Titres were reduced by more than 4 log(10)with the exception of HAV. The defatting step with chloroform/methanol reduced HAV titres by a factor of >/=7.0 log(10). From these results it can be concluded that the treatment of spongiosa cuboids with (i) chloroform/methanol and (ii) 1% PAA/24% ethanol solution leads to a virus-safe medicinal product.


pmid: 12686204
title: Microbial contamination of embryos and semen during long term banking in liquid nitrogen
abstract: We report on microbial contamination of embryos and semen cryopreserved in sealed plastic straws and stored for 6-35 years in liquid nitrogen. There were 32 bacterial and 1 fungal species identified from randomly drawn liquid nitrogen, frozen semen, and embryos samples stored in 8 commercial and 8 research facility liquid nitrogen (LN) tanks. The identified bacteria represented commensal or environmental microorganisms and some, such as Escherichia coli, were potential or opportunistic pathogens for humans and animals. Stenotrophomonas maltophilia was the most common contaminant identified from the samples and was further shown to significantly suppress fertilization and embryonic development in vitro. Analysis of the strains by pulsed field gel electrophoresis revealed restriction patterns with no relatedness indicating that there was no apparent cross-contamination of S. maltophilia strains between the germplasm and liquid nitrogen samples. In addition, no transmission of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1) from infected semen and embryos straws to clean germplasm stored in the same LN tanks or LN was detected.


pmid: 11642277
title: Genotypic characteristics of bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 strains isolated in northern Italy
abstract: Two strains of Bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 (BVDV-2) were isolated from calves in northern Italy. Variations in the 5'-untranslated region (UTR) of the genome were studied by primary structure alignment and neighbor-joining method based phylogenetic tree analyses and by palindromic nucleotide substitutions at the three variable loci in the 5'-UTR. Genetic analysis indicated their appurtenance to genovar BVDV-2a. Nucleotide sequence at the 5'-UTR of strain BS-95-II, one of the Italian isolates from healthy calves, showed 98% homology to that of the Japanese isolate OY89, a cytopathic strain derived from cattle with mucosal disease.


pmid: 7607542
title: The Drosophila melanogaster genome contains a member of the Rh/T2/S-glycoprotein family of ribonuclease-encoding genes
abstract: Members of the Rh/T2/S-glycoprotein family of ribonuclease(RNase)-encoding genes have been found predominantly in fungi, plants and bacteria, where they have been implicated in functions as diverse as the phosphate-starvation response and self-incompatibility. We report the isolation and sequence of DmRNase-66B, the first member of this family to be found in an insect genome. This gene was identified by the analysis of a cDNA clone derived from cytological region 66B1-2 of the genome of Drosophila melanogaster. In a search of sequence databases for homologs of this gene, two animal viral proteins, gp53 of the bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and gp44/48 of the hog cholera virus (HCV), were also found to exhibit the characteristic features of this class of RNases. In all cases, the proteins contain two conserved pentameric amino-acid regions that have been shown to lie in the active site of these RNases. A series of Cys residues are also conserved in all members of this gene family. The discovery of members of this family of genes in an insect genome indicates that these RNases are widely conserved and play important roles in the animal, as well as the plant and prokaryotic kingdoms.


pmid: 9210936
title: Identification and production of pestivirus proteins for diagnostic and vaccination purposes
abstract: Using a panel of monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) previously characterized by seroneutralization, immunofluorescence and radioimmunoprecipitation, we have identified Pestivirus proteins useful for diagnostic purposes from the cytopathic Osloss isolate of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Proteins that should be useful for vaccination have also been analysed. Cell-free translation of RNA from glycoprotein-coding cDNA fragments produced, when synthesized in the presence of canine pancreatic microsomes, two glycosylated proteins that were independently recognized and immunoprecipitated by two distinct classes of neutralizing MAbs. A similar in vitro procedure was carried out on nonstructural protein-coding sequences and allowed to identify a viral translation product that specifically reacted with MAbs directed against the 80 kDA protein of a number of Pestivirus strains. Its positioning within the polyprotein encoded by the viral genome was refined by epitope scanning using synthetic hexameric peptides. This viral antigen was further expressed in E. coli, produced as inclusion bodies and used successfully as an ELISA antigen in both competitive and indirect assays for the detection of BVD antibodies in cattle sera.


pmid: 20097877
title: Uptake and trafficking of liposomes to the endoplasmic reticulum
abstract: Liposomes are vesicular structures consisting of an aqueous core surrounded by a lipid bilayer. Apart from the cytosol and lysosomes, no other intracellular compartment has been successfully targeted using liposomal delivery. Here, we report the development of liposomes capable of specific targeting to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and associated membranes. Using competition and inhibitor assays along with confocal microscopy, we have determined that ER liposomes utilize scavenger and low-density lipoprotein receptors for endocytosis and enter cells through a caveolin- and microtubule-dependent mechanism. They traffic intact to the ER, where fusion with the ER membrane occurs after 22-25 min, which was confirmed by fluorescence-dequenching assays. Once inside the ER, tagged lipids intercalate with the ER membrane and are subsequently incorporated into ER-assembling entities, such as the ER-budding viruses hepatitis C virus (HCV) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), lipid droplets, and secreted lipoproteins. ER liposomes are superior to cytosolic liposome formulations for the intracellular delivery of aqueous cargo, such as HIV-1 antivirals, and are especially suited for the prolonged delivery of lipids and lipophilic drugs into human cells.


pmid: 9210936
title: Identification and production of pestivirus proteins for diagnostic and vaccination purposes
abstract: Using a panel of monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) previously characterized by seroneutralization, immunofluorescence and radioimmunoprecipitation, we have identified Pestivirus proteins useful for diagnostic purposes from the cytopathic Osloss isolate of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Proteins that should be useful for vaccination have also been analysed. Cell-free translation of RNA from glycoprotein-coding cDNA fragments produced, when synthesized in the presence of canine pancreatic microsomes, two glycosylated proteins that were independently recognized and immunoprecipitated by two distinct classes of neutralizing MAbs. A similar in vitro procedure was carried out on nonstructural protein-coding sequences and allowed to identify a viral translation product that specifically reacted with MAbs directed against the 80 kDA protein of a number of Pestivirus strains. Its positioning within the polyprotein encoded by the viral genome was refined by epitope scanning using synthetic hexameric peptides. This viral antigen was further expressed in E. coli, produced as inclusion bodies and used successfully as an ELISA antigen in both competitive and indirect assays for the detection of BVD antibodies in cattle sera.


pmid: 20097877
title: Uptake and trafficking of liposomes to the endoplasmic reticulum
abstract: Liposomes are vesicular structures consisting of an aqueous core surrounded by a lipid bilayer. Apart from the cytosol and lysosomes, no other intracellular compartment has been successfully targeted using liposomal delivery. Here, we report the development of liposomes capable of specific targeting to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and associated membranes. Using competition and inhibitor assays along with confocal microscopy, we have determined that ER liposomes utilize scavenger and low-density lipoprotein receptors for endocytosis and enter cells through a caveolin- and microtubule-dependent mechanism. They traffic intact to the ER, where fusion with the ER membrane occurs after 22-25 min, which was confirmed by fluorescence-dequenching assays. Once inside the ER, tagged lipids intercalate with the ER membrane and are subsequently incorporated into ER-assembling entities, such as the ER-budding viruses hepatitis C virus (HCV) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), lipid droplets, and secreted lipoproteins. ER liposomes are superior to cytosolic liposome formulations for the intracellular delivery of aqueous cargo, such as HIV-1 antivirals, and are especially suited for the prolonged delivery of lipids and lipophilic drugs into human cells.


pmid: 16987555
title: Antiviral activity of CHO-SS cell-derived human omega interferon and other human interferons against HCV RNA replicons and related viruses
abstract: The fully glycosylated human omega interferon produced from CHO-SS cells (glycosylated IFN-omega) has been shown to be well-tolerated in man and to induce a sustained virologic response in patients infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV). We examined the antiviral activity of glycosylated IFN-omega and various human IFNs (IFN-alpha, -beta, -gamma and non-glycosylated bacterial (Escherichia coli) recombinant IFN-omega (non-glycosylated IFN-omega)) against HCV RNA replicons and several viruses related to HCV. Since none of the IFNs displayed cytotoxicity we compared their activities based on the effective concentration of the IFN that inhibited virus growth by 50% (EC50). Glycosylated IFN-omega was found to be the most potent antiviral agent of all the IFNs tested against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), yellow fever virus and West Nile virus. With HCV RNA replicons, non-glycosylated IFN-omega was comparable in activity to IFN-alpha while glycosylated IFN-omega was markedly more potent, indicating that glycosylation has an important effect on its activity. Drug combination analysis of glycosylated IFN-omega+ribavirin (RBV) in BVDV showed a synergy of antiviral effects similar to IFN-alpha+RBV, as well as a unique antagonism of RBV cytotoxic effects by glycosylated IFN-omega. Transcription factor (TF) profiling indicated that IFN-alpha or glycosylated IFN-omega treatment upregulated the same 17 TFs. IFN-alpha and glycosylated IFN-omega also upregulated 9 and 40 additional unique TFs, respectively. The differences in the expression of these TFs were modest, but statistically significantly different for eight of the TFs that were upregulated exclusively by glycosylated IFN-omega. The activation of these additional TFs by glycosylated IFN-omega might contribute to its high potency.


pmid: 10516027
title: Assignment of the multifunctional NS3 protein of bovine viral diarrhea virus during RNA replication: an in vivo and in vitro study
abstract: Studies on the replication of the pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were considerably facilitated by the recent discovery of an autonomous subgenomic BVDV RNA replicon (DI9c). DI9c comprises mainly the untranslated regions of the viral genome and the coding region of the nonstructural proteins NS3, NS4A, NS4B, NS5A, and NS5B. To assess the significance of the NS3-associated nucleoside triphosphatase/helicase activity during RNA replication and to explore other functional features of NS3, we generated a repertoire of DI9c derivatives bearing in-frame mutations in different parts of the NS3 coding unit. Most alterations resulted in deficient replicons, several of which encoded an NS3 protein with an inhibited protease function. Three lesions permitted replication, though at a lower level than that of the wild-type RNA, i.e., replacement of the third position of the DEYH helicase motif II by either T or F and an insertion of four amino acid residues in the C-terminal part of NS3. While polyprotein proteolysis was found to be almost unaffected in these latter replicons, in vitro studies with the purified mutant NS3 proteins revealed a significantly impaired helicase activity for the motif II substitutions. NS3 with a DEFH motif, moreover, showed a significantly lower ATPase activity. In contrast, the C-terminal insertion had no negative impact on the ATPase/RNA helicase activity of NS3. All three mutations affected the synthesis of both replication products-negative-strand intermediate and progeny positive-strand RNA-in a symmetric manner. Unexpectedly, various attempts to rescue or enhance the replication capability of nonfunctional or less functional DI9c NS3 derivatives, respectively, by providing intact NS3 in trans failed. Our experimental data thus demonstrate that the diverse enzymatic activities of the NS3 protein-in particular the ATPase/RNA helicase-play a pivotal role even during early steps of the viral replication pathway. They may further indicate the C-terminal part of NS3 to be an important functional determinant of the RNA replication process.


pmid: 27865267
title: Occurrence of Pseudocowpox virus associated to Bovine viral diarrhea virus-1, Brazilian Amazon
abstract: In 2011, an outbreak of severe vesicular disease occurred in the state of Pará, Amazon region. Besides proliferative or verrucous lesions, cattle showed atypical clinical signs such as diarrhea and leading to death. The animals were submitted to clinical, pathological and molecular diagnosis, and laboratory tests have confirmed the presence of Pseudocowpox virus (PCPV), a Parapoxvirus genus member, and have also found Bovine viral diarrhea virus-1 (BVDV-1), probably causing persistent infection. The results of molecular diagnostics, followed by sequencing data demonstrated the circulation of both viruses (PCPV and BVDV-1) in an area previously affected by another poxvirus, as Vaccinia virus.The cocirculation between PCPV and BVDV-1 indicates a major concern for animal health because the clinical presentation can be a severe disease. This is the first detection of PCPV in the Brazilian Amazon.


pmid: 16647871
title: A six-year study on respiratory viral infections in a bull testing facility
abstract: Viral infection dynamics and bovine respiratory disease (BRD) treatment rates were studied over six years at a Swedish bull testing station with an 'all in, all out' management system. In August of each of the years 1998-2003, between 149 and 185 4-8-month-old calves arrived at the station from 99 to 124 different beef-breeding herds, and remained until March the following year. Only calves that tested free from bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) were allowed to enter the station and original animal groups were kept isolated from new cattle in their original herds for three weeks before admission. Although neither prophylactic antibiotics, nor BRD vaccines were used, less than 0.7-13.2% (mean 5%) of the calves (n=970) required treatment for BRD during the first five weeks following entry. This was probably due, at least in part, to the season (the summer months) when the animals were commingled. In the six-month period August-February, 38% of the animals were treated one or more times for BRD and mortality was 0.7%. Hereford and Aberdeen Angus calves had significantly higher treatment rates than Charolais, Simmental and Blonde d'Aquitaine. Serological testing on samples obtained in August, November and January indicated that bovine parainfluenza virus 3 (PIV-3) infections occurred each year before November after entry. Bovine coronavirus (BCoV) infections also occurred every year, but in 3/6 years this was not until after November. Bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) infections occurred only every second year and were associated with a treatment peak and one death on one occasion (December). The herd remained BVDV free during the entire study period. The infection patterns for PIV-3 and BCoV indicated a high level of infectivity amongst bovine calves, whereas the incidence for BRSV was observed at a lower level. Although the rearing of the animals differed from conventional beef production, the study has shown that commingling animals from many sources is not necessarily associated with high morbidity within the first few weeks after arrival. By preventing BRD soon after commingling the prerequisites for protective vaccination at entry might be improved. Applied management routines are discussed.


pmid: 16154245
title: Immunization with plasmid DNA encoding a truncated, secreted form of the bovine viral diarrhea virus E2 protein elicits strong humoral and cellular immune responses
abstract: The major protective antigen of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), the E2 protein, is cell-associated and not expressed on the cell surface. In this study we evaluated a DNA vaccine encoding various secreted versions of E2. In vitro analysis demonstrated that deletion of the transmembrane anchor and addition of the signal sequence of bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1) (gDsDeltaE2) resulted in efficient secretion of E2 into the culture medium. In contrast, full-length E2, either without or with gDs (gDsE2), as well as truncated E2 without gDs (DeltaE2), remained entirely cell-associated. Mice immunized with plasmid encoding gDsDeltaE2 developed significantly higher IgG and virus neutralizing antibody titres compared to animals vaccinated with plasmid encoding E2, DeltaE2 or gDsE2. To optimize secretion of E2, the efficiency of gDs was compared with that of the tissue plasminogen activator signal (tPAs) sequence. In addition, the effect of the plasmid backbone was assessed by comparing two vectors. Four plasmids, pMASIA-gDsDeltaE2, pMASIA-tPAsDeltaE2, pSLKIA-gDsDeltaE2 and pSLKIA-tPAsDeltaE2, were constructed and administered intradermally to mice. The mice immunized with pMASIA-tPAsDeltaE2 developed the strongest and most balanced immune responses. Vaccination of cattle confirmed that pMASIA-tPAsDeltaE2 elicited both strong humoral and cellular immune responses and thus could be a candidate DNA vaccine against BVDV.


pmid: 15820112
title: Herd-level risk factors for infectious diseases in Swedish dairy calves aged 0-90 days
abstract: The effect of environmental factors and management routines on the risk of diarrhoea, respiratory disease and other infectious diseases was investigated in 3081 heifer calves 0-90 days old in 122 Swedish dairy herds. The farmers kept records on cases of diseases in their heifer calves and in addition, project veterinarians clinically examined all calves every 2-3 months. At each visit, the veterinarians also measured the ammonia concentration and relative air humidity in the housing facilities for the calves. The cleanliness of the animals and their environment was recorded as a measure of the hygienic status of the farm. The presence or absence of draught (i.e. wind velocity>0.5 m/s) was recorded twice during the study period. The effect of these factors, as well as the placing of the calf pens, the nature of the pen walls, air volume per animal, management factors (such as the status of the caretaker and feeding routines) and presence or absence of a bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) infection in the herd, was evaluated by means of a two-level variance component logistic model. The placing of calf pens along an outer wall was significantly associated with the risk of diarrhoea (odds ratio (OR): 1.92, P<0.01). The risk for respiratory disease was significantly associated with an ammonia concentration below 6 ppm (OR: 0.42, P<0.05) while the odds ratio for moderately to severely increased respiratory sounds was significantly associated with a BVDV infection in the herd (OR: 2.39, P<0.05) and draught (OR: 3.7, P<0.02). Absence of draught was significantly associated with the risk for infectious diseases other than diarrhoea and respiratory disease (OR: 0.42, P<0.01).


pmid: 20403384
title: A microsphere-based immunoassay for rapid and sensitive detection of bovine viral diarrhoea virus antibodies
abstract: This study describes a novel blocking microsphere-based immunoassay for highly sensitive and specific detection of antibodies against bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). The intra- and inter-assay variability are 4.9% and less than 7%, respectively, and variability of bead conjugations is less than 6.6%. The diagnostic performance of the assay was evaluated by testing a total of 509 serum samples. Based on a negative/positive cut-off value of 30.3%, the assay has a sensitivity of 99.4% and a specificity of 98.3% relative to ELISA. The new microsphere immunoassay provides an alternative to conventional ELISA systems and can be used for high-throughput screening in the BVD control programmes.


pmid: 19553392
title: New insights into processing of bovine viral diarrhea virus glycoproteins E(rns) and E1
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) is a member of the genus Pestivirus within the family Flaviviridae. Its single-stranded RNA encodes a polyprotein that is cleaved co- and post-translationally by viral and cellular proteases. However, the cleavage between the envelope proteins E(rns) and E1 is still unexplained. In this study, an E(rns)-E1 protein could be identified and characterized with a new E1-specific antiserum. With bicistronic constructs bearing a deletion in the E(rns)-encoding region and expressing E(rns) or the E(rns)-E1 protein, it could be shown that this protein is not essential for virus replication. Furthermore, two putative cleavage sites were mutated in eukaryotic expression plasmids, as well as in full-length cDNA constructs. The mutation of position P3 of a potential signal peptide peptidase site abolished cleavage completely and no infectious virus progeny could be observed, indicating that cleavage of the E(rns)-E1 protein is indispensable for virus growth.


pmid: 16115092
title: Genetic characterization of a caprine pestivirus as the first member of a putative novel pestivirus subgroup
abstract: Currently, the genus Pestivirus comprises four approved species, namely bovine viral diarrhoea viruses 1 and 2 (BVDV-1, BVDV-2), classical swine fever virus and border disease virus (BDV). Recently, three major genotypes have been identified within the species BDV and termed as subgroups BDV-1, BDV-2 and BDV-3. Here, an isolate from animals in a herd showing BD-like syndromes, which occurred in central Italy was analysed. A reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction was performed using primers that specifically amplify a fragment of the 5'-non-coding region (5'-NCR) from BDV. Both the 5'-NCR fragment and the entire Npro gene were sequenced and used for genetic typing. The 5'-NCR sequence revealed that the newly isolated Pestivirus could be allocated to the BDV species. Interestingly, the Npro sequence of this virus isolate significantly differed from all the ovine pestiviruses previously described, providing evidence for the presence of an additional subgroup within the species BDV.


pmid: 9873761
title: New methods for inactivation of lipid-enveloped and non-enveloped viruses
abstract: Two new methods are described for inactivating lipid-enveloped and non-enveloped viruses in plasma-derived products such as coagulation factors and intravenous immunoglobulin (IGIV). Iodine/Sephadex delivers iodine to IGIV solutions in a slow, controlled way and allows for inactivation of > or = 4 logs of porcine parvovirus (PPV), a hardy non-enveloped virus, under conditions which do not measurably damage the structural or functional properties of the IGIV, and with essentially no iodination of the protein. All detectable enveloped and non-enveloped viruses were inactivated by this treatment. Gamma irradiation has been successfully used to inactivate viruses at the final vial stage in freeze-dried plasma proteins. Four logs of PPV were inactivated by irradiation in the presence of fibrinogen, factor VIII and alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor (API) at doses of 23, 28 and 30 kiloGray (kGy) respectively, while retaining 93% of fibrinogen solubility, 67% of factor VIII activity and over 80% of API activity. Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a lipid-enveloped model for hepatitis C virus, was completely inactivated by radiation doses of 20-30 kGy in these products. Gamma irradiation was less effective in inactivating viruses in freeze-dried IGIV.


pmid: 8605577
title: Ruminant pestiviruses
abstract: The ruminant pestiviruses, bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and border disease virus (BDV) are highly successful and important pathogens which infect ruminant species worldwide. Although the serological relationships among ruminant pestiviruses require further clarification, there is growing evidence for two antigenic groups, one of which predominates in cattle and one in sheep. The success of pestiviruses stems from the ability of the non-cytopathic (NCP) biotype of the virus to cross the placenta and establish a persistent infection (PI) in the developing foetus. This biotype should be regarded as the 'normal' biotype with the cytopathic (CP) biotype being an abnormal virus that is usually isolated only from PI animals dying from mucosal disease. Recent molecular evidence points to CP viruses arising from their NCP counterparts by recombination events that include the insertion of host RNA and/or the duplication of viral RNA sequences. However, the biological mechanism through which CP viruses kill cells remains unknown. Virtually all CP and NCP viruses cause only mild, transient clinical symptoms in healthy adult animals and stimulate a protective immune response. Despite the urgent requirement for a safe, effective vaccine, there is still no commercial vaccine that has been shown to immunize dams so that foetal infection is prevented. In the absence of an effective vaccine, reliable diagnostic techniques are essential to implement effective control measures. There is now a range of monoclonal antibody-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays for identifying PI or convalescent animals. These tests are specific, rapid, sensitive and reliable but may themselves become redundant as they are superceded by ever-increasing molecular biology-based techniques.


pmid: 26250843
title: Plant-produced viral bovine vaccines: what happened during the last 10 years?
abstract: Vaccination has proved to be an efficient strategy to deal with viral infections in both human and animal species. However, protection of cattle against viral infections is still a major concern in veterinary science. During the last two decades, the development of efficient plant-based expression strategies for recombinant proteins prompted the application of this methodology for veterinary vaccine purposes. The main goals of viral bovine vaccines are to improve the health and welfare of cattle and increase the production of livestock, in a cost-effective manner. This review explores some of the more prominent recent advances in plant-made viral bovine vaccines against foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV), bovine rotavirus (BRV), bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), bluetongue virus (BTV) and bovine papillomavirus (BPV), some of which are considered to be the most important viral causative agents of economic loss in cattle production.


pmid: 25421501
title: Optic pathway degeneration in Japanese black cattle
abstract: Degeneration of the optic pathway has been reported in various animal species including cattle. We experienced a case of bilateral optic tract degeneration characterized by severe gliosis in a Japanese black cattle without any obvious visual defects. To evaluate the significance, pathological nature and pathogenesis of the lesions, we examined the optic pathway in 60 cattle (41 Japanese black, 13 Holstein and 6 crossbreed) with or without ocular abnormalities. None of these animals had optic canal stenosis. Degenerative changes with severe gliosis in the optic pathway, which includes the optic nerve, optic chiasm and optic tract, were only observed in 8 Japanese black cattle with or without ocular abnormalities. Furthermore, strong immunoreactivity of glial fibrillary acidic protein was observed in the retinal stratum opticum and ganglion cell layer in all 5 cattle in which the optic pathway lesions could be examined. As etiological research, we also examined whether the concentrations of vitamin A and vitamin B12 or bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection was associated with optic pathway degeneration. However, our results suggested that the observed optic pathway degeneration was probably not caused by these factors. These facts indicate the presence of optic pathway degeneration characterized by severe gliosis that has never been reported in cattle without bilateral compressive lesions in the optic pathway or bilateral severe retinal atrophy.


pmid: 23747225
title: Design and synthesis of N-alkyldeoxynojirimycin derivatives with improved metabolic stability as inhibitors of BVDV and Tacaribe virus
abstract: Novel N-alkyldeoxynojirimycins (NADNJs) based on our previous lead 3 were designed, synthesized and tested in metabolic assays and in virus cultures. NADNJs containing terminal tertiary benzamide, sulfonamide, urea, and oxazolidinone moieties were discovered to have improved metabolic stability compared to 3, while maintaining submicromolar EC50 against BVDV and Tacaribe virus; and low cytotoxicity.


pmid: 33000634
title: Single-particle chemical force microscopy to characterize virus surface chemistry
abstract: Two important viral surface characteristics are the hydrophobicity and surface charge, which determine the viral colloidal behavior and mobility. Chemical force microscopy allows the detection of viral surface chemistry in liquid samples with small amounts of virus sample. This single-particle method requires the functionalization of an atomic force microscope (AFM) probe and covalent bonding of viruses to a surface. A hydrophobic methyl-modified AFM probe was used to study the viral surface hydrophobicity, and an AFM probe terminated with either negatively charged carboxyl acid or positively charged quaternary amine was used to study the viral surface charge. With an understanding of viral surface properties, the way in which viruses interact with the environment can be better predicted.


pmid: 19029665
title: Inactivation of virus in intravenous immunoglobulin G using solvent/detergent treatment and pasteurization
abstract: The safety of plasma derived medicinal products, such as immunoglobulin, depends on viral inactivation steps that are incorporated into the production process. Several attempts have been made to validate the effectiveness of these inactivation methods against a range of physio-chemically diverse viruses. Treatment with solvent/detergent (S/D) and pasteurization (P) has been continuously used in our IgG production and these methods were analysed in this study as models of viral inactivation. Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV), Herpes Simplex Virus (HSV) and Vesicular Stomatitis Virus (VSV) were employed as models of HCV, HBV and HIV respectively. Polio and Reo viruses also were used as stable viruses to chemical substances. The infectivity of a range of viruses before and after treatment with two methods of viral inactivation was measured by end point titration and their effectiveness expressed as Logarithmic Reduction Factors (LRF). Solvent/detergent treatment reduced the amount of enveloped viruses by 5-6 logs. The reduction factor was between 5-6 logs for all viruses used in the pasteurization process. A final log reduction factor was obtained as the sum of the two individual methods. Both inactivation methods have advantages and disadvantages with respect to their ability to inactivate viruses. Thus,combination of two robust virus inactivation steps, solvent/detergent and pasteurization, increases the safety margin of immunoglobulin preparations.


pmid: 9557298
title: Transport of viruses through fetal membranes: an in vitro model of perinatal transmission
abstract: A model system for perinatal transmission of viral infections was developed and transport of infectious virus particles through fetal membranes was investigated. Viruses of different families known to cause serious intrauterine infections were selected, including relevant and model viruses: the DNA-viruses HSV-1 and -2 as well as the animal herpes viruses BHV-1 and SHV-1, the RNA-virus BVDV as a model for hepatitis C virus, HIV-1 and -2, and PPV as a model for parvovirus B19. Migration of infectious virus from the maternal to the fetal side of the membrane could be detected as early as 20 min after the start of incubation. A peak of virus migration was observed after 1-2 hr. 0.02-1% of HSV-1 and 0.03-0.2% of HSV-2 were transported from the maternal side of the membrane to the fetal side. Only 0.01% of PPV migrated to the fetal side, whereas no transport of BVDV was observed. HIV-1 (1.4%) and HIV-2 (0.8%) seemed to be transported at higher rates. The concept of an active transport of infectious virus is compatible with the kinetics of penetration of the fetal membrane. The question of whether different receptors for the individual viruses on the cellular surface account for differences in virus transport will require further investigation. The fetal membrane acts as a protective barrier for the fetus, reducing greatly infectious titers or even preventing completely penetration of virus.


pmid: 9500167
title: Evaluation of bovine viral diarrhea virus control using a mathematical model of infection dynamics
abstract: A mathematical model for infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was created comprising a series of coupled differential equations. The model architecture is a development of the traditional model framework using susceptible, infectious and removed animals (the SIR model). The model predicts 1.2% persistent infection (within the range of field estimates) and is fairly insensitive to alterations of structure or parameter values. This model allows us to draw important conclusions regarding the control of BVD, particularly with respect to the importance of persistently infected (PI) animals in maintaining BVD as an endemic entity in the herd. Herds without PI animals are likely to experience episodic reproductive losses at intervals of two to three years, unlike herds with PI animals which will not see such marked episodic manifestations of infection. Instead, these herds will experience an initial peak of disease which will settle to low-level chronic reproductive losses. The model indicates that vaccine coverage for herd immunity (to avoid episodic manifestations of disease) need be only 57% without PI animals, although 97% coverage is required when PI animals are present. Analysis of model behavior suggests a program of detection and removal of PI animals may enhance the effectiveness of a vaccine program provided these animals are in the herd for 10 days or less. The best results would be seen with PI animals in the herd for 5 or fewer days.


pmid: 23261155
title: Comparison of the cross-antibody response induced in sheep by inactivated bovine viral diarrhoea virus 1 and Hobi-like pestivirus
abstract: Hobi-like pestivirus, a new tentative species within genus Pestivirus, was firstly detected in foetal bovine serum batches and later associated to respiratory distress and reproductive failures in cattle. In the present study, the cross-antibody response between bovine viral diarrhoea virus 1 (BVDV-1) and the emerging pestivirus was evaluated in the sheep model. Ten sheep were immunised against BVDV-1 or Hobi-like pestivirus using inactivated preparations and the induced antibody responses were evaluated against the homologous and heterologous viruses. The results showed that heterologous antibody titres were significantly lower than the homologous ones, thus suggesting the need to develop specific vaccines against the emerging pestiviral species.


pmid: 15823351
title: Experimental microbial contamination and disinfection of dry (vapour) shipper dewars designed for short-term storage and transportation of cryopreserved germplasm and other biological specimens
abstract: Cryopreservation, storage and transport of cryopreserved germplasm without the risk of disease transmission is of great concern to animal and human health authorities. Here we report on the efficacy of microbial decontamination of the liquid nitrogen (LN) dry (vapour) shippers used for short-term storage and transportation of germplasm and other biological specimens. Dry shippers containing either a hydrophobic or a non-hydrophobic LN absorbent were experimentally contaminated with high titers of cultures of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Escherichia coli, Staphylococus aureus, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1). Biocidals with broad spectrum antimicrobial activity and gas vapours of formalin and ethylene oxide were used for disinfection of the dewars. Among the biocidals used, treatment with sodium hypochlorite solution, the quaternary ammonium-based disinfectants and peracetic acid were the most effective and useful for dry shippers with a hydrophobic LN absorbent. None of the bacterial or viral microorganisms were detected in samples of semen and embryos stored in dry shippers following their disinfection with these biocides. An application of some other disinfectants, due to their foaming properties or to the permeability of the absorbent hydrophobic membrane (HM) was not effective or may have caused irreversible damage to the LN absorbent. Gas sterilization by ethylene oxide in contrast to formalin was fully effective for both types of dry shippers.


pmid: 1654669
title: Efficiency of various cloned DNA probes for detection of bovine viral diarrhea viruses
abstract: We have evaluated 24 cytopathic (CP) and 37 noncytopathic (NCP) strains of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) with a dot blot assay using four different genome segments of the NADL strain as hybridization probes (p80, p54, gp53, and gp62). The p80 and p54 probes hybridized to 23/24 (96%) and 22/24 (92%), respectively, of CP strains examined. In contrast, these same two probes only detected 16/37 (43%) and 5/37 (13%), respectively, of the NCP strains examined. The gp53 probe detected 18/24 (75%) and the gp62 probe detected 19/24 (79%) of the CP strains. In contrast, these latter two probes only detected 9/37 (24%) and 7/37 (20%), respectively, of NCP strains. This low detection rate of NCP strains suggests a need for developing a probe based on NCP sequences for identification of NCP strains.


pmid: 19501253
title: Antiviral activity of geneticin against dengue virus
abstract: The aminoglycoside, geneticin (G418), was recently shown to have antiviral activity against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Since BVDV, dengue virus (DENV) and yellow fever virus (YFV) all belong to the Flaviviridae family, it seemed possible that a common step in their life cycle might be affected by this aminoglycoside. Here it is shown that geneticin prevented the cytopathic effect (CPE) resulting from DENV-2 infection of BHK cells, in a dose-dependent manner with an 50% effective concentration (EC(50)) value of 3+/-0.4microg/ml. Geneticin had no detectable effect on CPE caused by YFV in BHK cells. Geneticin also inhibited DENV-2 viral yield with an EC(50) value of 2+/-0.1microg/ml and an EC(90) value of 20+/-2microg/ml. With a CC(50) value of 165+/-5microg/ml, the selectivity index of anti-DENV activity of geneticin in BHK cells was established to be 66. Furthermore, 25microg/ml of geneticin nearly completely blocked plaque formation induced by DENV-2, but not YFV. In addition, geneticin, inhibited DENV-2 viral RNA replication and viral translation. Gentamicin, kanamycin, and the guanidinylated geneticin showed no anti-DENV activity. Neomycin and paromomycin demonstrated weak antiviral activity at high concentrations. Finally, aminoglycoside-3'-phosphotransferase activity of neomycin-resistant gene abolished antiviral activity of geneticin.


pmid: 28127668
title: A newly developed BVDV-1 RT-qPCR Taqman assay based on Italian isolates: evaluation as a diagnostic tool
abstract: A single-step TaqMan® RT-qPCR was developed for the detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 (BVDV-1), an important pathogen of cattle worldwide. The assay was based on conserved 5'UTR sequences of Italian BVDV-1 isolates. In order to establish a diagnostic protocol which simplifies sample collection and processing, the assay was tested on a variety of biological specimens collected from persistently infected calves. The samples analyzed included PBMCs, plasma, dry blood, ear notch and hair bulb. Time and costs required for the analysis of each type of specimen were compared. The RT-qPCR, whose lower limit of detection was 100 copies of viral RNA (1 TCID50), correctly identified all PI animals, irrespective of the type of specimen. The highest copy numbers were obtained from the RNAs extracted from PBMCs, ear notches and hair bulbs. Hair bulb-supernatants directly used as a template allowed identification of all PI animals. In conclusion, based on time and cost evaluation, the most effective and efficient protocol was the one based on the direct analysis of hair bulb-supernatants, avoiding the RNA extraction step.


pmid: 18054406
title: Cytoplasmic vacuolization responses to cytopathic bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) is a positive sense, single-stranded RNA virus which exhibits two biotypes in standard cell culture systems. The cytopathic strains of this virus (cpBVDV) induce dramatic cytoplasmic vacuolization in cell cultures, while infection with the non-cytopathic (NCP-BVDV) strains produces no overt changes in the host cells. Our results show that extensive cytoplasmic vacuolization is the earliest morphological change in response to cpBVDV infection in MDBK cells. Cells with extensive vacuolization showed no co-existing chromatin condensation, caspase activation, or loss of membrane integrity. In addition, the caspase inhibitor (zVAD-fmk), although improving cell viability of infected cells from 6.7+/-2.2% to 18.8+/-2.2%, did not prevent vacuolization. On the ultrastructural level, the virus-induced cytoplasmic vacuoles are single membrane structures containing organelles and cellular debris, which appear capable of fusing with other vacuoles and engulfing surrounding cytoplasmic materials. LysoTracker Red which marks lysosomes did not stain the virus-induced cytoplasmic vacuoles. In addition, this lysosomal dye could be observed in the cytoplasm of vacuolized cells, suggesting a lysosomal abnormality. Our data demonstrate that cpBVDV induced a novel cell death pathway in MDBK cells that is primarily associated with lysosomal dysfunction and the formation of phagocytic cytoplasmic vacuoles, and this mode of cell death is different from apoptosis and necrosis.


pmid: 17042329
title: Inhibition of hepatitis C replicon RNA synthesis by beta-D-2'-deoxy-2'-fluoro-2'-C-methylcytidine: a specific inhibitor of hepatitis C virus replication
abstract: beta-D-2'-Deoxy-2'-fluoro-2'-C-methylcytidine (PSI-6130) is a cytidine analogue with potent and selective anti-hepatitis C virus (HCV) activity in the subgenomic HCV replicon assay, 90% effective concentration (EC90)=4.6 +/- 2.0 microM. The spectrum of activity and cytotoxicity profile of PSI-6130 was evaluated against a diverse panel of viruses and cell types, and against two additional HCV-1b replicons. The S282T mutation, which confers resistance to 2'-C-methyl adenosine and other 2'-methylated nucleosides, showed only a 6.5-fold increase in EC90. When assayed for activity against bovine diarrhoea virus (BVDV), which is typically used as a surrogate assay to identify compounds active against HCV, PSI-6130 showed no anti-BVDV activity. Weak antiviral activity was noted against other flaviviruses, including West Nile virus, Dengue type 2, and yellow fever virus. These results indicate that PSI-6130 is a specific inhibitor of HCV. PSI-6130 showed little or no cytotoxicity against various cell types, including human peripheral blood mononuclear and human bone marrow progenitor cells. No mitochondrial toxicity was observed with PSI-6130. The reduced activity against the RdRp S282T mutant suggests that PSI-6130 is an inhibitor of replicon RNA synthesis. Finally, the no-effect dose for mice treated intraperitoneally with PSI-6130 for six consecutive days was > or =100 mg/kg per day.


pmid: 27039687
title: Vaccination of calves against common respiratory viruses in the face of maternally derived antibodies(IFOMA)
abstract: Vaccination of calves in the face of maternal antibodies (IFOMA) often does not result in seroconversion as maternally derived immunity interferes with the activation of adequate antibody responses to vaccination; however, it can prime T and B cell memory responses that protect calves against clinical disease when maternal immunity has decayed. The activation of B and T cell memory responses in calves vaccinated IFOMA varies and is affected by several factors, including age, level of maternal immunity, type of vaccine, and route of administration. These factors influence the adequate priming of humoral and cell mediated immune responses and the outcome of vaccination. The failure to adequately prime immune memory after vaccination IFOMA could result in lack of clinical protection and increased risk of viremia and/or virus shedding.


pmid: 15663079
title: Viral and bacterial pathogens in bovine respiratory disease in Finland
abstract: Pathogens causing bovine respiratory tract disease in Finland were investigated. Eighteen cattle herds with bovine respiratory disease were included. Five diseased calves from each farm were chosen for closer examination and tracheobronchial lavage. Blood samples were taken from the calves at the time of the investigation and from 86 calves 3-4 weeks later. In addition, 6-10 blood samples from animals of different ages were collected from each herd, resulting in 169 samples. Serum samples were tested for antibodies to bovine parainfluenza virus-3 (PIV-3), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), bovine coronavirus (BCV), bovine adenovirus-3 (BAV-3) and bovine adenovirus-7 (BAV-7). About one third of the samples were also tested for antibodies to bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) with negative results. Bacteria were cultured from lavage fluid and in vitro susceptibility to selected antimicrobials was tested. According to serological findings, PIV-3, BAV-7, BAV-3, BCV and BRSV are common pathogens in Finnish cattle with respiratory problems. A titre rise especially for BAV-7 and BAV-3, the dual growth of Mycoplasma dispar and Pasteurella multocida, were typical findings in diseased calves. Pasteurella sp. strains showed no resistance to tested antimicrobials. Mycoplasma bovis and Mannheimia haemolytica were not found.


pmid: 1423053
title: Age distribution of animals persistently infected with bovine virus diarrhea virus in twenty-two Danish dairy herds
abstract: The objectives of this study were to compare the age distribution of animals persistently infected (PI) with bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV) in 12 herds with clinical BVD compared to ten herds without clinical BVD and to examine the incidence of PI calves born after the oldest PI animal. Blood samples from all animals were tested for bovine virus diarrhea virus and antibodies. In five herds, blood samples were obtained from calves born after the whole herd had been tested. All calves born by PI dams were also blood tested. In herds with clinical BVD the median age of PI animals was 248 days and in herds without clinical BVD the median age was 144 days. There was no significant difference between the age of PI animals in herds with clinical BVD compared to herds without clinical BVD (p = 0.48) suggesting similar epidemiology of the occurrences of PI animals in the two herd categories. Thereafter, all herds were used to study the incidence of PI animals. A total of 129 PI animals were found. In ten herds with 72 PI animals the age range of PI animals was more than six months. In these herds 26.3% of the PI animals were born within the first two months after birth of the oldest PI animal, no PI animals were born 2- less than 6 months, 52.7% were born 6- less than 14 months, 6.9% were born 14- less than 22 months and 13.9% (all born by PI dams) were born later than 22 months after the oldest PI animal.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


pmid: 23077294
title: Residues Arg283, Arg285, and Ile287 in the nucleotide binding pocket of bovine viral diarrhea virus NS5B RNA polymerase affect catalysis and fidelity
abstract: Residues Arg283, Arg285, and Ile287 are highly conserved amino acids in bovine viral diarrhea virus RNA polymerase (BVDV RdRp) and RdRps from related positive-strand RNA viruses. This motif is an important part of the binding pocket for the nascent RNA base pair during initiation and elongation. We found that replacement of the arginines with alanines or more conserved lysines or replacement of isoleucine with alanine or valine alters the ability of the mutant RdRps to incorporate ribonucleotides efficiently. The reduced RdRp activity stems from both decreased ribonucleotide binding and decreased catalytic efficiency in both primer-dependent and de novo initiation, as shown by kinetic studies. In line with other studies on flaviviral RdRps, our data suggest that Arg283 and Ile287 may be implicated in ribonucleotide binding and positioning of the template base in the active site. Arg285 appears to be involved directly in the selection of cognate nucleotide. The findings for Arg285 and Ile287 mutants also agree with similar data from picornavirus RdRps.


pmid: 20470249
title: Styrylbenzimidazoles. Synthesis and biological activity - part 3
abstract: As a follow up of an anti-Flaviviridae project, a new series of variously substituted 2-styryl-benzimidazoles were synthesized and tested in vitro for biological activity. Compounds were tested in cell-based assays against viruses representative of: i) two of the three genera of the Flaviviridae family, i.e. Pestiviruses and Flaviviruses; ii) other RNA virus families, such as Retroviridae, Picornaviridae, Paramyxoviridae, Rhabdoviridae and Reoviridae; iii) two DNA virus families (Herpesviridae and Poxviridae) as well as for cytotoxicity tests, run in parallel with antiviral assays,against MDBK, BHK and Vero 76 cells. In the series examined, new leads emerged against BVDV, CVB-2 and RSV. Compounds 11, 12, 17, 18, 24, 31 exhibited anti-BVDV activity in the concentration range 1.7-16 microM; among them, compound 17 was the most active, with an EC(50) = 1.7 microM. Compounds 18 and 21 were equally active against CVB-2, with EC(50) values of 7 - 8 microM, while the derivative 30 was active against RSV with EC(50)= 1 microM and represents a new lead compound.


pmid: 9713894
title: Critical factors affecting the diagnostic reliability of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay formats
abstract: This paper aims to evaluate different formats of the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) for detection of virus-specific antibodies and focuses on factors that may influence the diagnostic reliability of such tests. Newly developed and well-established ELISAs for detection of infections of bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV1), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), classical swine fever virus (CSFV), pseudorabies virus (PRV) and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) are used as examples. Differences between competitive and non-competitive ELISAs are described, with special reference to the influence of the antigen, the conjugated antibody and the test sample on the test results. Attention is drawn to interference, which may result in false positive or false negative test results, with special emphasis on the 'bridging' phenomenon. The use of monoclonal antibodies and discriminatory tests are briefly discussed. Diagnostic reliability is described for tests that are used in monitoring or eradication programmes, emphasising the consequences of false negative and false positive test results. Finally, reducing assay-time and functional quality control for such tests are discussed.


pmid: 30031751
title: A direct high-throughput in Cell-ELISA for measuring infectivity of cytopathic and non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhoea virus strains applied to the assessment of antiviral activity
abstract: Low-cost high-throughput methods applicable to any virus strain are required for screening antiviral compounds against multiple field strains. Colorimetric cell-viability assays are used for this purpose as long as the viruses are cytopathic (CP) in cell culture. However, bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) strains circulating in the field are mostly non-cytopathic (NCP). An In Cell-ELISA aimed to measure viral infectivity by detecting a conserved protein produced during viral replication (non-structural protein 3, "NS3") was developed. The ELISA is performed without harvesting the cells, directly on the 96-wells culture plate. NS3 In Cell-ELISA was tested for its ability to assess BVDV-specific antiviral activity of recombinant bovine type I and III IFNs. Results correlated to those measured by qRT-PCR and virus titration. NS3 In Cell-ELISA was also efficient in estimating the IC50 of two compounds with different antiviral activity. Estimation of the 50% inhibition dose of each IFN using six BVDV strains of different biotype and genotype showed that CP strains were more susceptible to both IFNs than NCP, while type 2 NCP viruses were more sensitive to IFN-I. The In Cell-ELISA format using a detector antibody against a conserved non-structural protein can be potentially applied to accurately measure infectivity of any viral strain.


pmid: 16187545
title: Transmission of bovine viral diarrhea virus 1b to susceptible and vaccinated calves by exposure to persistently infected calves
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) persistently infected (PI) calves represent significant sources of infection to susceptible cattle. The objectives of this study were to determine if PI calves transmitted infection to vaccinated and unvaccinated calves, to determine if BVDV vaccine strains could be differentiated from the PI field strains by subtyping molecular techniques, and if there were different rates of recovery from peripheral blood leukocytes (PBL) versus serums for acutely infected calves. Calves PI with BVDV1b were placed in pens with nonvaccinated and vaccinated calves for 35 d. Peripheral blood leukocytes, serums, and nasal swabs were collected for viral isolation and serology. In addition, transmission of Bovine herpes virus 1 (BHV-1), Parainfluenza-3 virus (PI-3V), and Bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) was monitored during the 35 d observation period. Bovine viral diarrhea virus subtype 1b was transmitted to both vaccinated and nonvaccinated calves, including BVDV1b seronegative and seropositive calves, after exposure to PI calves. There was evidence of transmission by viral isolation from PBL, nasal swabs, or both, and seroconversions to BVDV1b. For the unvaccinated calves, 83.2% seroconverted to BVDV1b. The high level of transmission by PI calves is illustrated by seroconversion rates of nonvaccinated calves in individual pens: 70% to 100% seroconversion to the BVDV1b. Bovine viral diarrhea virus was isolated from 45 out of 202 calves in this study. These included BVDV1b in ranch and order buyer (OB) calves, plus BVDV strains identified as vaccinal strains that were in modified live virus (MLV) vaccines given to half the OB calves 3 d prior to the study. The BVDV1b isolates in exposed calves were detected between collection days 7 and 21 after exposure to PI calves. Bovine viral diarrhea virus was recovered more frequently from PBL than serum in acutely infected calves. Bovine viral diarrhea virus was also isolated from the lungs of 2 of 7 calves that were dying with pulmonary lesions. Two of the calves dying with pneumonic lesions in the study had been BVDV1b viremic prior to death. Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1b was isolated from both calves that received the killed or MLV vaccines. There were cytopathic (CP) strains isolated from MLV vaccinated calves during the same time frame as the BVDV1b isolations. These viruses were typed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and genetic sequencing, and most CP were confirmed as vaccinal origin. A BVDV2 NCP strain was found in only 1 OB calf, on multiple collections, and the calf seroconverted to BVDV2. This virus was not identical to the BVDV2 CP 296 vaccine strain. The use of subtyping is required to differentiate vaccinal strains from the field strains. This study detected 2 different vaccine strains, the BVDV1b in PI calves and infected contact calves, and a heterologous BVDV2 subtype brought in as an acutely infected calf. The MLV vaccination, with BVDV1a and BVDV2 components, administered 3 d prior to exposure to PI calves did not protect 100% against BVDV1b viremias or nasal shedding. There were other agents associated with the bovine respiratory disease signs and lesions in this study including Mannheimia haemolytica, Mycoplasma spp., PI-3V, BRSV, and BHV-1.


pmid: 28364266
title: A study on some reproductive disorders in dromedary camel herds in Saudi Arabia with special references to uterine infections and abortion
abstract: Dromedary camels complaining from conception failure or abortion were investigated and their herders interviewed in Al Ahsa province, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) during 2013 and 2015. The most important reproductive disorder according to the responders is uterine infection (60.2%) followed by obesity (22.3%) then physiological conditions (hormonal disturbances; 7.8%), adhesions (3.9%) and repeat breeders (2.9%). Of the camel herders, 78.6% reported previous occurrence of abortion in their herds and 46% reported abortion cases in the last season (2015/2016), while 21.4% reported no history of abortion. Most of the responders (97.1%) do not call a veterinarian for cases of abortion in their herds and 53.4% do not discard aborted materials. The majority of the herders (76.7%) deny that handling aborted materials or touching vaginal fluids can result in human infection, or replied they do not know. Uterine swab samples were collected and tested by PCR for seven potential pathogens and sera tested for antibodies against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and Brucella. Five pathogens were identified in infected uterine samples, namely Coxiella burnetii (36%), Campylobacter spp. (27%), Brucella spp. (17%), Salmonella spp. (13%), and Chlamydia spp. (7%). Sero-prevalence of Brucella and BVDV was 8.2 and 29.1% in overall sera, respectively, and varies with regard to the region. The findings of the present study demonstrate that reproductive disorders dominated by uterine infections and abortions are widespread in dromedary camels in KSA.


pmid: 27482692
title: Effects of timing of anabolic implant insertion on growth and immunity of recently weaned beef steers
abstract: We evaluated the effects of timing of estrogenic implant insertion, relative to weaning, on growth performance and measurements of innate and humoral immunity of beef calves. On d -14, Angus × Simmental crossbred steers ( = 48; BW = 217 ± 5 kg; age = 191 ± 3 d) were stratified by BW, age, and cow parity and randomly assigned to receive no implant (NOIP) or 36 mg of zeranol on d -14, 0, or 14, relative to weaning (IP-14, IP0, and IP+14, respectively; 12 steers/treatment). From d -14 to 0, cow-calf pairs remained on a single, tall-fescue pasture with no access to concentrate supplementation. Steers were weaned on d 0, stratified by treatment and BW, and then allocated into 1 of 16 drylot pens to receive daily free-choice access to a corn silage-based diet during the preconditioning phase (d 0 to 56). Steers were vaccinated against infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBRV), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and on d -27 and 0. From d 56 to 252 (postpreconditioning phase), steers remained in their respective feedlot pens and were provided free-choice access to corn silage-based growing (d 56 to 167) and finishing total mixed rations (d 168 to 252). Body weight on d 0 did not differ among treatments ( ≥ 0.29) but was greater for IP-14 and IP0 than NOIP and IP+14 steers on d 14, 42, and 56 ( ≤ 0.05). Treatment effects were not detected for G:F and DMI from d 0 to 56 ( ≥ 0.34), but ADG from d -14 to 56 was greater for IP-14 compared to NOIP ( ≤ 0.05) and intermediate for IP0 and IP+14 steers. Plasma IGF-1 concentrations were greater for IP-14 than NOIP ( ≤ 0.05) and intermediate for IP0 and IP+14 steers on d -7, 0, 14, and 21. Plasma concentrations of cortisol and haptoglobin and serum titers against BVDV types 1a and 2 did not differ among treatments from d 0 to 56 ( ≥ 0.37). However, serum IBRV titers were greater for IP+14 than NOIP, IP-14, and IP0 steers ( ≤ 0.02). On d 252, BW was greater for IP-14 and IP0 than NOIP steers ( ≤ 0.05) and intermediate for IP+14 steers, but ADG and G:F from d 57 to 252 and carcass characteristics at slaughter did not differ among treatments ( ≥ 0.16). Thus, the 36-mg zeranol implant did not elicit an inflammatory response or affect the overall vaccine response of steers (except for IBRV titers). However, growth of steers during a 56-d preconditioning period was enhanced by administering 36-mg zeranol implant 14 d before weaning, without affecting subsequent postpreconditioning growth and carcass characteristics at slaughter.


pmid: 11287572
title: Efficient translation initiation is required for replication of bovine viral diarrhea virus subgenomic replicons
abstract: An internal ribosome entry site (IRES) mediates translation initiation of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) RNA. Studies have suggested that a portion of the N(pro) open reading frame (ORF) is required, although its exact function has not been defined. Here we show that a subgenomic (sg) BVDV RNA in which the NS3 ORF is preceded only by the 5' nontranslated region did not replicate to detectable levels following transfection. However, RNA synthesis and cytopathic effects were observed following serial passage in the presence of a noncytopathic helper virus. Five sg clones derived from the passaged virus contained an identical, silent substitution near the beginning of the NS3 coding sequence (G400U), as well as additional mutations. Four of the reconstructed mutant RNAs replicated in transfected cells, and in vitro translation showed increased levels of NS3 for the mutant RNAs compared to that of wild-type (wt) MetNS3. To more precisely dissect the role of these mutations, we constructed two sg derivatives: ad3.10, which contains only the G400U mutation, and ad3.7, with silent substitutions designed to minimize RNA secondary structure downstream of the initiator AUG. Both RNAs replicated and were translated in vitro to similar levels. Moreover, ad3.7 and ad3.10, but not wt MetNS3, formed toeprints downstream of the initiator AUG codon in an assay for detecting the binding of 40S ribosomal subunits and 43S ribosomal complexes to the IRES. These results suggest that a lack of stable RNA secondary structure(s), rather than a specific RNA sequence, immediately downstream of the initiator AUG is important for optimal translation initiation of pestivirus RNAs.


pmid: 27519290
title: Design of anti-BVDV drug based on common chemical features, their interaction, and scaffolds of TLR8 agonists
abstract: In the absence of an experimental bTLR8 structure, recent studies have called attention to the fact that bTLR8 can also be activated by hTLR7/hTLR8 agonist, such as antiviral imidazoquinoline derivatives of resiquimod (R848) and imiquimod (R837) as well as some guanine nucleotide analogs with a scaffold structure related to the nucleic acids of ssRNA virus. In particular, the known small agonists (namely CL075, CL097 and R848) have been targeted to determine distinguishable deciding factors in complex with dimeric bTLR8-ECDs in comparison to ligand-induced activated hTLR8-ECDs. According to basic knowledge, the deciding eligibility criteria can be subsequently applied in our bTLR8 model to characterize the 3D-arrangement of chemical features (pharmacophore) and to investigate the distinct restrictions affecting species-specificity on dual TLR7/TLR8 small agonists suggested in previous works. Despite the lack of extensive structural biology studies regarding the interaction of bTLR8-ECDs with the agonists, our complex models of bTLR8-ECDs and the known agonists were applied to identify the deciding factors required for the interactions from agonist-based and (bTLR8-agonist complexes) structure-based pharmacophores. These pharmacophore constraints impose their essential chemical features to active bTLR8 receptors. The characterized pharmacophores all were employed in the virtual screening of candidates with a further acting factor of calf immune enhancer. Two hits were suggested as satisfying all decision factors to identify a potent bTLR8-specific agent with novel scaffolds dissimilar to imidazoquinoline analogues lacking overall homogeneity.


pmid: 27285930
title: Short-term energy restriction during late gestation of beef cows decreases postweaning calf humoral immune response to vaccination
abstract: Our objectives were to evaluate the pre- and postweaning growth and measurements of innate and humoral immune response of beef calves born to cows fed 70 or 100% of NEm requirements during the last 40 d of gestation. On d 0 (approximately 40 d before calving), 30 multiparous Angus cows pregnant to embryo transfer (BW = 631 ± 15 kg; age = 5.2 ± 0.98 yr; BCS = 6.3 ± 0.12) were randomly allocated into 1 of 10 drylot pens (3 cows/pen). Treatments were randomly assigned to pens (5 pens/treatment) and consisted of cows limit-fed (d 0 to calving) isonitrogenous, total-mixed diets formulated to provide 100 (CTRL) or 70% (REST) of daily NEm requirements of a 630-kg beef cow at 8 mo of gestation. Immediately after calving, all cow-calf pairs were combined into a single management group and rotationally grazed on tall fescue pastures (6 pastures; 22 ha/pasture) until weaning (d 266). All calves were assigned to a 40-d preconditioning period in a drylot from d 266 to 306 and vaccinated against infectious bovine rhinotracheitis, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), , and spp. on d 273 and 287. Blood samples from jugular vein were collected from cows on d 0, 17, and 35 and from calves within 12 h of birth and on d 266, 273, 274, 276, 279, and 287. By design, REST cows consumed less ( ≤ 0.002) total DMI, TDN, and NEm but had similar CP intake ( = 0.67), which tended ( = 0.06) to increase BW loss from d 0 to calving, than CTRL cows (-1.09 vs. -0.70 ± 0.14 kg/d, respectively). However, gestational NEm intake did not affect ( ≥ 0.30) plasma concentrations of cortisol, insulin, and glucose during gestation and BCS at calving as well as postcalving pregnancy rate, BW, and BCS change of cows. Calf serum IgG concentrations and plasma concentrations of haptoglobin and cortisol at birth as well as calf pre- and postweaning BW and ADG did not differ ( ≥ 0.15) between calves born to REST and CTRL cows. However, calf postweaning overall plasma concentrations of cortisol; plasma haptoglobin concentrations on d 274, 276, and 279; and serum BVDV-1a titers on d 306 were less for REST calves than for CTRL calves ( ≤ 0.05). Hence, a NEm restriction to 70% of daily requirements during the last 40 d of gestation had minimal effects on cow precalving growth and did not affect postcalving cow growth and reproductive performance. However, it decreased postweaning vaccination-induced humoral immunity, inflammatory, and physiological stress responses of calves.


pmid: 18952126
title: Evaluation of automated nucleic acid extraction methods for virus detection in a multicenter comparative trial
abstract: Five European veterinary laboratories participated in an exercise to compare the performance of nucleic acid extraction robots. Identical sets of coded samples were prepared using serial dilutions of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) from serum and cell culture propagated material. Each laboratory extracted nucleic acid from this panel using available robotic equipment (12 separate instruments, comprising 8 different models), after which the processed samples were frozen and sent to a single laboratory for subsequent testing by real-time RT-PCR. In general, there was good concordance between the results obtained for the different automated extraction platforms. In particular, the limit of detection was identical for 9/12 and 8/12 best performing robots (using dilutions of BVDV infected-serum and cell culture material, respectively), which was similar to a manual extraction method used for comparison. The remaining equipment and protocols used were less sensitive, in an extreme case for serum, by a factor of 1000. There was no evidence for cross-contamination of RNA template in any of the negative samples included in these panels. These results are not intended to replace local optimisation and validation, but provide reassurance to laboratories to indicate that the best performing optimised nucleic acid extraction systems can have similar performance.


pmid: 16566263
title: Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction on pooled samples to detect bovine viral diarrhea virus by using fresh ear-notch-sample supernatants
abstract: Ear-notch samples from 3,599 yearling heifers were collected to detect persistently infected (PI) animals with suspect bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Individual immunohistochemistry (IHC), individual antigen-capture enzyme-linked immmunosorbent assay (AC-ELISA), and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests with pooled ear-notch supernatants were compared with samples from 3,016 heifers, whereas RT-PCR ear-notch pools and individual AC-ELISA tests were compared with samples from all 3,599 heifers. Four heifers were identified positive by both IHC and AC-ELISA, whereas the remaining heifers were identified negative by both tests. When supernatant from ear notches from 100 animals was randomly pooled and RT-PCR was accomplished on each pool, RT-PCR identified 2 pools that contained 1 positive AC-ELISA sample and 1 pool that contained 2 positive AC-ELISA samples. Further evaluation of the pooled RT-PCR ear-notch supernatant detected 100% (n = 36) samples spiked with supernatant from a single randomly selected positive AC-ELISA ear notch. Although follow-up confirmatory tests were not completed, all 3 methods correlated 100% in detecting suspect PI animals, with a kappa value of 1. The use of RT-PCR on pooled ear-notch supernatant could provide an initial, rapid, cost-effective method of screening cattle herds for BVDV PI animals. Subsequent serial testing with an AC-ELISA to evaluate individual samples included in the positive pool could minimize the length of time other animals are exposed to the virus.


pmid: 14599682
title: Construction of an infectious chimeric classical swine fever virus containing the 5'UTR of bovine viral diarrhea virus, and its application as a universal internal positive control in real-time RT-PCR
abstract: RT-PCR is used widely as a diagnostic method to detect and differentiate pestiviruses. The construction of two chimeric classical swine fever virus (CSFV) recombinants based on a marker virus constructed previously [J. Virol. 72 (1998) 5318-5322] is described. These viruses, termed vA187CAT_5UTRBVD and vA187CAT_IRESBVD, contain the entire 5' untranslated region (5'UTR) or the internal ribosome entry site (IRES) of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), respectively. Both chimeric viruses proved to be infectious in cell culture. Hence, the 5'UTR as well as the IRES element only of BVDV can substitute for the corresponding genome region of CSFV. Next, two sets of primers and corresponding dual-labeled TaqMan probes were designed; one detecting specifically a conserved but CSFV-specific area within the 5'UTR of wild-type CSFV, the other one targeting the CAT gene inserted in vA187CAT_5UTRBVD. The two primer/probe sets were combined in a closed-tube multiplex one-step RT-PCR. To monitor the entire extraction and detection process limited amounts of vA187CAT_5UTRBVD were added directly to clinical samples before RNA extraction. The multiplex RT-PCR proved to be as sensitive as the single primer/probe set method, but allowed the validation of each sample tested individually, based on the detection of the CAT marker gene. vA187CAT_5UTRBVD was also used successfully for foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) TaqMan RT-PCR. Therefore, it is considered a universal internal positive control for RT-PCR assays to exclude loss of RNA during extraction, or failure of amplification due to inhibitory substances present in the sample.


pmid: 33557372
title: Intestinal Viral Loads and Inactivation Kinetics of Livestock Viruses Relevant for Natural Casing Production: a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis
abstract: Animal intestines are the source of edible sausage casings, which are traded worldwide and may come from areas where notifiable infectious animal diseases are prevalent. To estimate the risks of virus contamination, knowledge about the quantity of virus and decimal reduction values of the standard preservation method by salting is of great importance. A literature search, based on the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines, was performed in search engine CAB Abstracts to determine the viral load of 14 relevant animal viruses in natural casings or intestines. Only a very limited number of scientific publications per virus were found and viral loads in the intestines varied from high for ASFV (five publications), BVDV (3), CSFV (6), PPRV (3), RPV(2) and TGEV (3) to moderate for PEDV (2) and SVDV (3), low for HEV (2) and FMDV (5), very low for VESV (1) and negative for PrV (2) and VSV (1). PRRSV was found in intestines, however, viral titers were not published. Three viruses (BVDV, CSFV and PPRV) with high viral loads were selected to search for their inactivation kinetics. For casings, no inactivation data were found, however, thermal inactivation data of these viruses were available, but differed in quantity, quality and matrices. In conclusion, important data gaps still exist when it comes to the quantitative inactivation of viruses in sausage casings or livestock intestines.


pmid: 33007610
title: Ruminant pestiviruses in North Africa
abstract: Ruminant pestiviruses are widely distributed worldwide, causing congenital disease and massive economic losses. Although ruminant production is an important economic sector in North Africa, the knowledge about pestiviruses is scarce. The present study aimed at assessing the presence of Pestivirus in cattle in Algeria, and to review the data available on ruminant pestiviruses in North Africa. A cross-sectional study was conducted on dairy farms from North-Western Algeria. Blood samples from 234 dairy cattle from 31 herds were collected. All sera were analysed for the presence of antibodies using a commercial iELISA. The presence of Pestivirus RNA was also assessed by using a Reverse Transcription-PCR, and PCR-positive samples were sequenced. Risk factors related to Pestivirus infection were also analysed. The review of the presence of ruminant pestiviruses in North Africa was performed using a systematic search and compilation methodology of the peer-reviewed literature available in order to identify gaps of knowledge for future research. The seroprevalence at population and farm levels obtained in the present study (59.9% and 93.5%, respectively) concur with data reported in neighbouring countries. Risk factors associated with Pestivirus infection in cattle were the presence of sheep in the herd and the animal category (cow vs heifer). Furthermore, we confirmed the presence of BVDV-1a in Algeria. The scarce data suggest an endemic epidemiological scenario of pestivirus in livestock. The lack of studies about the epidemiology and molecular variability of ruminant pestiviruses in livestock and wildlife in North Africa is of concern for animal health and wildlife conservation, and needs to be addressed.


pmid: 24948933
title: In vitro inhibition of the bovine viral diarrhoea virus by the essential oil of Ocimum basilicum (basil) and monoterpenes
abstract: The bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) is suggested as a model for antiviral studies of the hepatitis C virus (HCV). The antiviral activity of the essential oil of Ocimum basilicum and the monoterpenes camphor, thymol and 1,8-cineole against BVDV was investigated. The cytotoxicities of the compounds were measured by the MTT (3-(4.5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2.5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide) test, and the antiviral activities were tested by the plaque reduction assay. The oil or compounds were added to the assay in three different time points: a) pre-treatment of the virus (virucidal assay); b) pre-treatment of the cells; or c) post-treatment of the cells (after virus inoculation). The percentage of plaques inhibition for each compound was determined based on the number of plaques in the viral control. The results were expressed by CC50 (50% cytotoxic concentration), IC50 (inhibitory concentration for 50% of plaques) and SI (selectivity index = CC50/IC50). Camphor (CC50 = 4420.12 μg mL(-1)) and 1,8-cineole (CC50 = 2996.10 μg mL(-1)) showed the lowest cytotoxicities and the best antiviral activities (camphor SI = 13.88 and 1,8-cineol SI = 9.05) in the virucidal assay. The higher activities achieved by the monoterpenes in the virucidal assay suggest that these compounds act directly on the viral particle.


pmid: 20381643
title: Immunogenicity of a modified-live virus vaccine against bovine viral diarrhea virus types 1 and 2, infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus, bovine parainfluenza-3 virus, and bovine respiratory syncytial virus when administered intranasally in young calves
abstract: The immunogenicity of an intranasally-administered modified-live virus (MLV) vaccine in 3-8 day old calves was evaluated against bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) types 1 and 2, infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR) virus, parainfluenza-3 (PI-3) virus and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV). Calves were intranasally vaccinated with a single dose of a multivalent MLV vaccine and were challenged with one of the respective viruses three to four weeks post-vaccination in five separate studies. There was significant sparing of diseases in calves intranasally vaccinated with the MLV vaccine, as indicated by significantly fewer clinical signs, lower rectal temperatures, reduced viral shedding, greater white blood cell and platelet counts, and less severe pulmonary lesions than control animals. This was the first MLV combination vaccine to demonstrate efficacy against BVDV types 1 and 2, IBR, PI-3 and BRSV in calves 3-8 days of age.


pmid: 20200665
title: Testing virucidal activity in Germany: an update
abstract: Several chemical disinfectants have been tested in a quantitative suspension test for virucidal activity as per the test method devised by the German Society for Control of Viral Diseases (DVV) and the former German Federal Health Office (BGA, now the Robert Koch-Institute, RKI) drafted in 1982. The introduction of the term "limited virucidal activity" (effective against enveloped viruses) in addition to the existing term "virucidal activity" (effective against non-enveloped and enveloped viruses) by the Robert Koch Institute has led to enormous expansion of these tests. However, there are no definitions to determine when a disinfectant with virucidal activity as apposed to a disinfectant with limited virucidal activity is to be used. The 1982 guideline was recently revised, while bringing it into line to reflect the latest insights. The BSA challenge has been omitted, while other controls such as verification of the sustained effect and interference control with which cell susceptibility is verified have been incorporated. A new requirement is that all tests be conducted in at least two independent batches, followed by biometric evaluation of the test results with calculation of the 95% confidence interval. The new guideline differs from DIN EN 14476, which in the meantime has been published in Europe, in that it does not feature the statistics now required. This guideline has introduced the parvovirus for chemothermal inactivation as well as the Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) as test virus for the limited virucidal activity (in addition to vaccinia virus which serves as a surrogate virus for hepatitis C virus - HCV). A second important example is Feline Calicivirus (FCV), which serves as a surrogate for noroviruses. In the USA efficacy testing of surface disinfectants against noroviruses is conducted with FCV in a carrier test (practice-related test). The third surrogate virus is the Duck Hepatitis B Virus (DHBV), used as a surrogate for hepatitis B virus (HBV). Today evaluation of the virus-inactivating properties is often conducted in parallel with bacteriological evaluation, so as to avoid any subsequent surprises in respect of viral efficacy. The DVV has failed over the past 24 years to formulate guidelines for practice-oriented tests. The future challenge is to define these as quickly as possible. Here similar approaches should be used for e.g. process challenge devices, challenge, exposure time as for bacteriological evaluation, so that the resultant application recommendations have equivalent status. The term "limited virucidal activity" should be expanded to disinfectant efficacy at European level.


pmid: 11042410
title: Comparative investigation of tissue alterations and distribution of BVD-viral antigen in cattle with early onset versus late onset mucosal disease
abstract: Tissue alterations and distribution of BVDV antigen were examined in nine cattle with early onset and five cattle with late onset mucosal disease (MD) to evaluate the possibility to differentiate between the two disease entities. MD was induced by inoculation of persistently viremic cattle with different strains of cytopathogenic BVDV. Animals which developed early onset MD became moribund approximately 2 weeks post-inoculation (pi); animals with late onset MD 42-115 days pi. All animals were euthanized and necropsied when moribund. Macroscopic lesions were found in the upper and lower digestive tract of cattle with early and late onset MD. In cattle with late onset MD, lesions in the oral cavity were generally milder and in the intestinal tract they were not only associated with GALT, but frequently affected the mucosa outside. Histologically, the abrupt changes between hyperplastic and atrophic areas of mucosa were striking in the cattle with late onset MD. This corresponded with the multifocal distribution of areas of mucosa in which intense staining for BVD-virus antigen could be demonstrated. In both courses of MD, a severe depletion of Peyer's patches was noted, but only in late onset MD, there was a complete loss of architecture. The most distinctive difference was the presence of vascular lesions which were observed in all five cattle with late onset MD, but in none of the animals with early onset MD. The vasculopathy was characterized by segmental necrosis of vascular walls and lymphohistiocytic perivasculitis in arterioles and small arteries in the submucosa of the intestine.


pmid: 9732031
title: Long-term viral serology of semi-free-living and captive ungulates
abstract: Between 1973 and 1994, blood samples were collected at Whipsnade Wild Animal Park (UK) from three ungulate species kept in enclosures, including 28 European bison (Bison bonasus), 37 scimitar-horned oryx (Oryx dammah), and 49 Père David's deer (Elaphurus davidianus), and also from 144 semi-free-living Chinese water deer (Hydropotes inermis). These samples were tested for the presence of antibodies against three bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)-like strains, three alpha-herpesvirus strains, enzootic hemorrhagic disease virus (EHDV) of deer, bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), bovine adenovirus 3 (BAV-3), and enzootic bovine leucosis virus (EBLV). Thirty-three individuals (13.1%) had antibodies to one or more of the three BVDV-like viruses, with titers ranging from 1:5 to 1:16, and 17 individuals (6.6%) were positive for antibodies to one or more of the three alpha-herpesviruses, with titers between 1:4 and 1:80. The highest titers and greatest proportion of seropositivity were against SH9/11, a recently isolated cytopathogenic pestivirus from wild roe deer (Capreolus capreolus). There were no positive reactors to BRSV and EHDV, and there was only one BAV-3 positive reactor, a scimitar-horned oryx, and one EBLV reactor, a European bison. There is no serologic evidence that semi-free-ranging Chinese water deer are important reservoirs or transmitters of the viral diseases investigated.


pmid: 8989827
title: Therapeutic factor XIII preparations and perspectives for recombinant factor XIII
abstract: With the increasing availability of human plasma this source was used to substitute for the production of factor XIII concentrate from placenta. Prior to changing the source material, the virus safety in accordance with the Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products (CPMP) guidelines and the half-life were investigated. Concerning the virus safety, the following cumulative log 10 clearance factors were obtained: human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) > or = 18.9, herpes simplex virus (HSV-1) > or = 21.5, polio > or = 19.1, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) > or = 13.3. Half-life studies of factor XIII from plasma in comparison with factor XIII from placenta were done in rabbits by determination of the antigen and in patients with congenital factor XIII deficiency by determination of the activity and antigen. In rabbits, the terminal half-life of the antigen was 78.2 hours for factor XIII from placenta and 87.0 hours for factor XIII from plasma. In patients the half-lives were similar: 9.2 days for activity and antigen of factor XIII from plasma and 8.5 days (activity) versus 9.4 days (antigen) for the placenta-derived factor XIII. Some further clinical studies with factor XIII concentrates are also reviewed. Newer developments concerning recombinant factor XIII, its expression, characterization, and properties are summarized. Concerning the physicochemical data, the behavior in plasma was characterized by the formation of high-molecular-weight complexes, and first in vivo results, the recombinant factor XIII product was comparable to the naturally occurring material.


pmid: 7536370
title: Comparison of an antigen capture enzyme-linked assay with reverse transcription--polymerase chain reaction and cell culture immunoperoxidase tests for the diagnosis of ruminant pestivirus infections
abstract: A study to compare the merits of three different tests for the diagnosis of ruminant pestivirus infections was carried out. Sensitivity studies using reference strains of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and buffy coat samples from persistently infected (PI) carriers showed the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) had a greater sensitivity than the other tests. The antigen capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was least sensitive and could only be used on samples containing cells (tissue or blood). When 169 clinical samples were examined, the RT-PCR detected the most positives (42) compared to the ELISA (32) and the immunoperoxidase test (IPT) (20). The RT-PCR was more successful when specific antibody was also present in the sample. The lower sensitivity of the IPT was related to the use of a 1 passage (4-day) test and the testing of toxic or contaminated samples. The ELISA was found to be most suitable for large-scale testing for the diagnosis and control of pestivirus infections.


pmid: 24842487
title: Role of thymic epithelial cells in lymphoid depletion after experimental infection with the noncytopathogenic BVDV1 strain 7443
abstract: Thymic epithelial cells could play an important role in lymphoid depletion during bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infection. To evaluate this hypothesis, we examined proliferation of lymphocytes, expression of cytokeratins by thymic epithelial cells, and ultrastructural features at sequential time points after experimental infection of colostrum-deprived calves with the noncytopathogenic BVDV1 strain 7443. Ten clinically healthy Friesian calves were used. Eight were inoculated with the virus, and 2 were used as uninfected controls. Calves were sedated and euthanized in batches between 3 and 14 days postinoculation. At necropsy, thymus samples were collected for structural, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural study. Thymic lymphoid depletion was accompanied by a decrease in lymphocyte proliferation and immunohistochemical and ultrastructural changes in thymic epithelial cells. Immunohistochemical and ultrastructural results reflect a disturbance of the thymic epithelial cell network, which may explain the decrease in lymphocyte proliferation by defective thymocyte-epithelial cell interactions.


pmid: 20200665
title: Testing virucidal activity in Germany: an update
abstract: Several chemical disinfectants have been tested in a quantitative suspension test for virucidal activity as per the test method devised by the German Society for Control of Viral Diseases (DVV) and the former German Federal Health Office (BGA, now the Robert Koch-Institute, RKI) drafted in 1982. The introduction of the term "limited virucidal activity" (effective against enveloped viruses) in addition to the existing term "virucidal activity" (effective against non-enveloped and enveloped viruses) by the Robert Koch Institute has led to enormous expansion of these tests. However, there are no definitions to determine when a disinfectant with virucidal activity as apposed to a disinfectant with limited virucidal activity is to be used. The 1982 guideline was recently revised, while bringing it into line to reflect the latest insights. The BSA challenge has been omitted, while other controls such as verification of the sustained effect and interference control with which cell susceptibility is verified have been incorporated. A new requirement is that all tests be conducted in at least two independent batches, followed by biometric evaluation of the test results with calculation of the 95% confidence interval. The new guideline differs from DIN EN 14476, which in the meantime has been published in Europe, in that it does not feature the statistics now required. This guideline has introduced the parvovirus for chemothermal inactivation as well as the Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) as test virus for the limited virucidal activity (in addition to vaccinia virus which serves as a surrogate virus for hepatitis C virus - HCV). A second important example is Feline Calicivirus (FCV), which serves as a surrogate for noroviruses. In the USA efficacy testing of surface disinfectants against noroviruses is conducted with FCV in a carrier test (practice-related test). The third surrogate virus is the Duck Hepatitis B Virus (DHBV), used as a surrogate for hepatitis B virus (HBV). Today evaluation of the virus-inactivating properties is often conducted in parallel with bacteriological evaluation, so as to avoid any subsequent surprises in respect of viral efficacy. The DVV has failed over the past 24 years to formulate guidelines for practice-oriented tests. The future challenge is to define these as quickly as possible. Here similar approaches should be used for e.g. process challenge devices, challenge, exposure time as for bacteriological evaluation, so that the resultant application recommendations have equivalent status. The term "limited virucidal activity" should be expanded to disinfectant efficacy at European level.


pmid: 26440347
title: Increasing the metabolizable protein supply enhanced growth performance and led to variable results on innate and humoral immune response of preconditioning beef steers
abstract: We evaluated the effects of MP supply on growth performance before and after preconditioning and measurements of innate and humoral immune response of beef steers following vaccination. Angus steers ( = 36; BW = 231 ± 21 kg; age = 184 ± 18 d) were weaned on d -6, stratified by BW and age on d 0, and randomly assigned to 1 of 18 drylot pens (2 steers/pen). Treatments were assigned to pens (6 pens/treatment) and consisted of corn silage-based diets formulated to provide 85%, 100%, or 115% of the daily MP requirements of a beef steer gaining 1.1 kg/d from d 0 to 42. Steers were vaccinated against infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus, bovine viral diarrhea (BVDV) types 1 and 2 viruses, and clostridium on d 14 and 28. Blood samples were collected on d 0, 14, 15, 17, 21, 28, 29, 30, 35, and 42. Body weight did not differ ( ≥ 0.17) among treatments from d 0 to 28. On d 42, 115% MP steers were heaviest, 100% MP steers were intermediate, and 85% MP steers were lightest ( = 0.05; 297, 290, and 278 ± 7 kg, respectively). Overall, ADG and G:F did not differ ( ≥ 0.13) between 100% and 115% MP steers and were least ( < 0.01) for 85% MP steers (1.2, 1.4, and 0.8 ± 0.07 kg/d and 0.23, 0.24, and 0.19 ± 0.008, respectively). Plasma haptoglobin (Hp) concentrations did not differ among treatments ( ≥ 0.46), whereas plasma ceruloplasmin (Cp) concentrations were greatest ( ≤ 0.04) for 85% MP steers, intermediate for 100% MP steers, and least for 115% MP steers on d 30, 35, and 42. Plasma cortisol concentrations were greater ( ≤ 0.03) for 85% vs. 100% and 115% MP steers on d 14 and 28. Liver mRNA expression of Cp and Hp and muscle mRNA expression of m-calpain, mammalian target of rapamycin, and ubiquitin did not differ among treatments ( ≥ 0.17). Serum neutralization titers to BVDV-1b titers were greater ( ≤ 0.02) for 115% vs. 85% and 100% MP steers on d 42 (5.8, 3.0, and 3.7 ± 0.60 log, respectively), whereas mean serum leukotoxin titers were greater for 85% vs. 100% and 115% MP steers (3.1, 2.4, and 2.5 ± 0.21 log, respectively). Preconditioning MP supply did not affect ( ≥ 0.26) ubsequent finishing growth performance and carcass characteristics. Thus, increasing MP supply from 85% to 115% of daily requirement of preconditioning beef steers had variable results on innate and humoral immune response and enhanced growth performance during a 42-d preconditioning period without affecting carcass characteristics at slaughter.


pmid: 15266897
title: Inhibitory effect of medicinal herbs against RNA and DNA viruses
abstract: Fifteen Argentine medicinal plants were tested for their antiviral activity in vitro against herpes simplex viruses types 1 and 2 (HSV-1 and 2), bovine viral diarrhoea virus type 1 (BVDV-1), influenza virus type A (Inf A) and human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). Antiviral activity was evaluated by a reduction in cytopathic effect, plaque-forming units and p24 HIV-1 antigen. The Selective Index of the active extract (SI(extract) = CC50(extract)/EC50(extract)) of Coronopus didymus (SI(extract) = 110.7), Juglans australis (SI(extract) = 8.1) and Lippia alba (SI(extract) = 19.2) against BVDV-1, HSV-1 and influenza A virus, respectively, justify a further analysis. None of the seven plants assayed against HIV-1 displayed any antiviral activity. The results of this study justify the continuing isolation and characterization of the antiviral components present.


pmid: 14599675
title: Real-time PCR for simultaneous detection and genotyping of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Since two genotypes of bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) occur in Belgian herds, their differentiation is important for disease surveillance. A quantitative real-time PCR assay was developed to detect and classify bovine viral diarrhea viruses in genotype I and II. A pair of primers specific for highly conserved regions of the 5'UTR and two TaqMan probes were designed. The FAM and VIC-labeled probe sequences differed by three nucleotides, allowing the differentiation between genotype I and II. The assay detectability of genotype I and II real-time PCR assay was 1000 and 100 copies, respectively. Highly reproducible data were obtained as the coefficients of variation of threshold cycle values in inter-runs were less than 2.2%. The correct classification of genotype I and II viruses was assessed by using reference strains and characterized field isolates of both genotypes. The application to clinical diagnosis was evaluated on pooled blood samples by post run measurement of the FAM- and VIC-associated fluorescence. The 100% agreement with the conventional RT-PCR method confirmed that this new technique could be used for routine detection of persistently infected immunotolerant animals.


pmid: 10729010
title: Prevalence of antibodies to IBR and BVD viruses in dairy cows with reproductive disorders
abstract: We determined the prevalence of antibodies to infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBRV) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in sera of dairy cows on 4 different farms in the Republic of Croatia. A high percentage (60.8%) of cows had various reproductive disorders. The results showed that seroprevalence of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR) was 85.8% and that of bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) was 79.2% in tested cows. Antibodies to both viruses were found in 80.8% of cows with reproductive disorders but in only 46.8% of cows without reproductive disorders. This difference was statistically significant (P<0.01), and indicated a connection between reproductive disorders and simultaneous infections with IBR and BVD viruses in dairy cows.


pmid: 8131731
title: [Prevalence of antibodies against the viruses of European swine fever, Aujeszky's disease and "porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome" in wild boars in the federal states Sachsen-Anhalt and Brandenburg]
abstract: During the hunting season from 1991/1992 blood samples were collected from wild boar shot in the Federal States of Sachsen-Anhalt (482 samples) and Brandenburg (177 samples) which corresponds to 2.1 and 0.4% of the total hunting bag. All sera were screened in a complex trapping blocking (CTB) ELISA for antibodies against hog cholera virus (HCV) and in an indirect ELISA for antibodies against Aujeszky's disease virus (ADV). Additionally the sera were tested for neutralizing antibodies against HCV strain ALFORT/187, bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) strains NADL and 1138/69, and against an ADV field isolate. In case of questionable results sera were tested against HCV strain "BERGEN", HCV vaccine strain "RIEMS" and three HCV field isolates from wild boar. The serological testing for antibodies against "porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus" (PRRSV) was carried out in indirect immunoperoxidase monolayer assay (IPMA). Four sera (Sachsen-Anhalt) reacted positive in CTB-ELISA. Seven sera yielded neutralizing antibodies against HCV but only one of the "non-negative" samples scored positive in both techniques, ELISA and VNT. Two sera (Brandenburg) had low neutralizing antibody titres against Alfort/197 but scored negative in CTB-ELISA. Screening for antibodies against ADV of 640 sera led to 13 positive sera including 5 positive findings in both ELISA and VNT. Antibodies against PRRSV were detected in two sera which were collected Sachsen-Anhalt. Estimations resulted in a prevalence of about 5% for antibodies against HCV.


pmid: 2107070
title: Comparison of persistence of seven bovine viruses on bovine embryos following in vitro exposure
abstract: The ability of seven cytopathic strains of bovine viruses to adhere to the zona pellucida of six-to-eight day-old bovine embryos were compared. Embryos were exposed to virus by placing them either in virus suspensions or by culturing them on infected bovine turbinate cultures for 18-24 h. After exposure to bovine virus diarrhea virus (BVDV), infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBV), bluetongue virus (BTV), pseudorabies virus (PRV), vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), parainfluenza 3 virus (PI3), or bovine enterovirus virus (BEV), the embryos were tested for virus by culture in bovine turbinate cells and by morphological examination using electron microscopy (EM). A special technique to minimize loss of embryos processed for EM was developed. More embryos had viral particles on the surface of the zona pellucida after exposure to 18-24 hour infected cell cultures than did embryos exposed to viral culture suspensions. The most dramatic finding was that BTV adhered in large numbers to the surface of the zona pellucida of exposed embryos. IBRV, PRV, and VSV comprised an intermediate group, with virions occasionally detected on the surface of exposed embryos after 5 washes. Therefore, extensive washing is required. The PI3 and BEV were easily removed from embryo-exposed virus by washing. BVD was difficult to identify morphologically, making assessment by EM unreliable. There was no evidence that any one of the seven viruses penetrated the intact zona pellucida. Using a micromanipulator, 42 embryos were also directly inoculated through the zona pellucida with +/- 50 picoliters of virus inoculum or medium.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


pmid: 22081877
title: Norwegian mastitis control programme
abstract: This paper describes the methods and results of the Norwegian Mastitis Control Program implemented in 1982. The program has formed an integral part of the Norwegian Cattle Health Services (NCHS) since 1995. The NCHS also have specific programs for milk fever, ketosis, reproduction and calf diseases. The goal of the program is to improve udder health by keeping the bulk milk somatic cell count (BMSCC) low, to reduce the use of antibiotics, to keep the cost of mastitis low at herd level and improve the consumers' attitude to milk products. In 1996, a decision was made to reduce the use of antibiotics in all animal production enterprises in Norway by 25% within five years. Relevant data has been collected through the Norwegian Cattle Herd Recording System (NCHRS); including health records since 1975 and somatic cell count (SCC) data since 1980. These data have been integrated within the NCHRS. Since 2000, mastitis laboratory data have also been included in the NCHRS. Data on clinical disease, SCC and mastitis bacteriology have been presented to farmers and advisors in monthly health periodicals since 1996, and on the internet since 2005. In 1996, Norwegian recommendations on the treatment of mastitis were implemented. Optimal milking protocols and milking machine function have been emphasised and less emphasis has been placed on dry cow therapy. A selective dry cow therapy program (SDCTP) was implemented in 2006, and is still being implemented in new areas. Research demonstrates that the rate of clinical mastitis could be reduced by 15% after implementing SDCTP. The results so far show a 60% reduction in the clinical treatment of mastitis between 1994 and 2007, a reduction in BMSCC from 250,000 cells/ml to 114,000 cells/ml, and a total reduction in the mastitis cost from 0.23 NOK to 0.13 NOK per litre of milk delivered to the processors, corresponding to a fall from 9.2% to 1.7% of the milk price, respectively. This reduction is attributed to changes in attitude and breeding, eradicating bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and a better implementation of mastitis prevention programmes.


pmid: 15745045
title: Isolation of bovine viral diarrhea virus 1, a pestivirus from autopsied lamb specimen from Tamil Nadu, India
abstract: An epizootic of febrile illness among the Madras red breed of sheep had occurred in 1994 in Verrapuram, Chennai, India. The epizootic was suspected as Rift Valley fever (RVF)-like sickness based on clinical features. However, its etiological agent could neither be isolated nor implicated conclusively. During the post-epizootic period a male lamb died of similar clinical features and the spleen was immediately collected. Inoculation of spleen suspension in infant mouse brain yielded a virus that was serially passaged in infant mice and rhabdomyosarcoma (RD) cells. Electron microscopic observations revealed virus particles resembling flaviviruses. RT-PCR performed on extracted total RNA from infected cells and mouse brains with flavivirus-specific or RVF-specific primers gave negative results. However, an amplicon of 280 bp was obtained with pestivirus-specific primers from the 5'-UTR. Further, a nested PCR yielded a product of 157 bp. Nucleotide sequencing of the 157 bp product showed 100% homology to BVDV-1. Western blot analysis with a flavivirus envelope protein-specific MAb revealed three proteins of 33 K, 45 K and 55 K. Further studies suggested that the 33 K and 55 K proteins were glycosylated. This is the first report of isolation of BVDV-1 from a lamb in India.


pmid: 24416391
title: Interaction of CSFV E2 protein with swine host factors as detected by yeast two-hybrid system
abstract: E2 is one of the envelope glycoproteins of pestiviruses, including classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). E2 is involved in several critical functions, including virus entry into target cells, induction of a protective immune response and virulence in swine. However, there is no information regarding any host binding partners for the E2 proteins. Here, we utilized the yeast two-hybrid system and identified fifty-seven host proteins as positive binding partners which bound E2 from both CSFV and BVDV with the exception of two proteins that were found to be positive for binding only to CSFV E2. Alanine scanning of CSFV E2 demonstrated that the binding sites for these cellular proteins on E2 are likely non-linear binding sites. The possible roles of the identified host proteins are discussed as the results presented here will be important for future studies to elucidate mechanisms of host protein-virus interactions during pestivirus infection. However, due to the limitations of the yeast two hybrid system, the proteins identified is not exhaustive and each interaction identified needs to be confirmed by independent experimental approaches in the context of virus-infected cells before any definitive conclusion can be drawn on relevance for the virus life cycle.


pmid: 28903865
title: Economic evaluation of the eradication program for bovine viral diarrhea in the Swiss dairy sector
abstract: Since 2008, the Swiss veterinary service has been running a mandatory eradication program for Bovine Viral Diarrhea (BVD) that is focused on detecting and eliminating persistently infected (PI) animals. Detection was initially based on antigen testing from ear tag samples of the entire cattle population, followed by antigen testing of all newborn calves until 2012. Since then, bulk milk serology (dairy herds) and blood sample serology (beef herds) have been used for the surveillance of disease-free herds. From 2008 to 2012, the proportion of newborn PI calves decreased from 1.4% to less than 0.02%. However, this success was associated with substantial expenditures. The aim of this study was to conduct an economic evaluation of the BVD eradication program in the Swiss dairy sector. The situation before the start of the program (herd-level prevalence: 20%) served as a baseline scenario. Production models for three dairy farm types were used to estimate gross margins as well as net production losses and expenditures caused by BVD. The total economic benefit was estimated as the difference in disease costs between the baseline scenario and the implemented eradication program and was compared to the total eradication costs in a benefit-cost analysis. Data on the impact of BVD virus (BVDV) infection on animal health, fertility and production parameters were obtained empirically in a retrospective epidemiological case-control study in Swiss dairy herds and complemented by literature. Economic and additional production parameters were based on benchmarking data and published agricultural statistics. The eradication costs comprised the cumulative expenses for sampling and diagnostics. The economic model consisted of a stochastic simulation in @Risk for Excel with 20,000 iterations and was conducted for a time period of 14 years (2008-2021). The estimated annual financial losses in BVDV infected herds were CHF 85-89 per dairy cow and CHF 1337-2535 for an average farm, depending on the production type. The median net present value (NPV) was estimated at CHF 44.9 million (90% central range: CHF 13.4 million-69.4 million) and the break-even point to have been reached in 2015. Overall, the outcomes demonstrate that the Swiss BVD eradication program results in a net benefit for the dairy sector. These findings are relevant for planning similar BVD control programs in other countries.


pmid: 20638945
title: Complete genomic sequence of a border disease virus isolated from Pyrenean chamois
abstract: This report describes the full-length genome sequence of the pestivirus strain H2121 which was recently isolated from Pyrenean chamois and typed as Border disease virus (BDV) genotype 4. Comparison with full-length genomic sequences of the approved pestivirus species Bovine viral diarrhea virus-1 (BVDV-1), BVDV-2, BDV, and Classical swine fever virus, the tentative species represented by strain Giraffe-1, as well as the atypical pestivirus strain Th/04_KhonKaen confirmed that the chamois pestivirus strain is most similar to BDV. The viral genome of H2121 is 12,305 nucleotides long and contains one large open reading frame. The latter encodes a polyprotein consisting of 3899 amino acids and is flanked with 376 nucleotides long 5' untranslated region (UTR) and 229 nt long 3' UTR. The genome organization of the chamois virus is reminiscent to that of other pestiviruses. Compared to other BDV strains including BDV-1 strain X818 and BDV-2 strain Reindeer-1, the 5' UTR and ORF of the chamois virus are very similar in length, while the 3' UTR of H2121 is 31-44 nucleotides shorter. In contrast to other BDV strains, the genome of the chamois virus contains a unique four amino acid insertion at the N-terminus of NS2.


pmid: 20042353
title: Pestivirus infection in sheep and goats in West Austria
abstract: Blood samples from 3112 sheep (185 flocks) and 1196 goats (163 flocks) from the Western region of Austria were tested for pestivirus-specific RNA. In this area, communal Alpine pasturing of sheep, cattle and goats is an important part of farming. The prevalence of sheep persistently-infected (PI) with pestivirus was 0.32% (10 animals) and the PI animals originated from five flocks (2.7% of those investigated). In goats, only one PI animal (0.08%) was detected. Sequence analysis of the 5'-end untranslated region (UTR) revealed that the strains of Border disease virus (BDV) detected were closely related to genotype 3 but the PI animals did not show any clinical signs of Border disease. The goat was PI with bovine viral diarrhoea virus-1 (BVDV-1). On one farm a high abortion rate among sheep had been observed 1year before the study was carried out but the other farms did not show any evidence of reproductive failures. Pestiviruses are endemic in small ruminants in some Alpine regions of Austria and PI healthy animals as described here have a key epidemiological role. A successful BVDV eradication programme in Austria will create highly pestivirus-susceptible cattle populations. Sheep and goats present a high risk for the reintroduction of pestiviruses to cattle herds because they are less likely to be considered to be PI. The results underline the need for the immediate consideration of small ruminants in eradication programmes.


pmid: 17257713
title: CP7_E2alf: a safe and efficient marker vaccine strain for oral immunisation of wild boar against Classical swine fever virus (CSFV)
abstract: Wild boar are an important reservoir of Classical swine fever virus (CSFV) in several European countries, where most of the primary outbreaks in domestic pigs are directly related to the endemic disease situation in the wild boar population. Oral immunisation has been introduced as an additional control measure to accelerate CSF eradication in wild boar in Germany since 1993. Immunisation with an oral bait vaccine based on the conventionally attenuated live vaccine strain "C" proved to be safe and effective, but does not allow differentiation between infected and vaccinated animals. Therefore, we examined the vaccine efficacy of the recently constructed chimeric pestivirus CP7_E2alf, whose coding sequences for the major envelope protein E2 of BVDV strain CP7 are replaced by E2 of the CSFV strain Alfort187 [Reimann I, Depner K, Trapp S, Beer M. An avirulent chimeric pestivirus with altered cell tropism protects pigs against lethal infection with classical swine fever virus. Virology 2004;322(1):143-57]. Following oral immunisation of wild boar, CP7_E2alf proved to be completely avirulent. Furthermore, all vaccinees were fully protected from clinical disease after a highly virulent CSFV challenge infection. The immunised animals seroconverted within 3 weeks after vaccination for CSFV E2-specific and CSFV neutralising antibodies, whereas prior to challenge infection no antibodies against CSFV E(rns) were detected with an appropriate CSFV-specific marker ELISA test. Thus, the BVDV backbone of CP7_E2alf enables serological and genetic differentiation from wild type CSFV infection. In conclusion, CP7_E2alf represents the first efficient and safe marker vaccine candidate for oral immunisation of wild boar against CSFV.


pmid: 15256903
title: Comparison of the efficacy of virus inactivation methods in allogeneic avital bone tissue transplants
abstract: Several procedures for inactivating viruses are used presently in the context of bone tissue transplants. Common methods used are gamma irradiation (25 kGy), treatment with moist heat (82.5 degrees C/15 min., lobator-sd2-system) as well as chemical sterilisation using peracetic acid-ethanol treatment (PES, 2% peracetic acid, 96% ethanol, Aqua [2:1:1], 200 mbar, agitation, 4 hours). Based on national and international guidelines, we tested the antivirucidal effectiveness of these methods in human bone transplants. Three enveloped viruses: human immunodeficiency virus type 2 (HIV-2), pseudorabies virus (PRV), bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV), and three non-enveloped viruses were used: hepatitis A virus (HAV), poliovirus (PV-1), porcine/bovine parvovirus (PPV, BPV). Defatted spongiosa cuboids served as model in chemical treatment experiments, while cortical diaphyses were used in gamma irradiation experiments, and the effects of thermal treatment were tested in prepared femoral heads. The log(10) reduction was measured by cytopathogenic effects after virus titration (TCID(50)/mL). A dose of at least 33.9 kGy (bone model) at -30 +/- 5 degrees C was necessary to achieve a sufficient reduction (4 log(10) steps) of BPV, the most resistant one of all viruses investigated. Thermal treatment as well as PES treatment led to a reduction of virus titres by more than 4 log(10). Only HAV showed a reduction below 4 log(10) (2.87) with PES. After validation of the defatting step included for HAV-infected cells, a HAV-reduction of over 7 log(10) was found. All three sterilisation methods tested are recommended for bone transplant sterilisation, but only provided that additional safety measures (anamnestic informations, infectious serology, PCR in case of multiorgan donors) are taken.


pmid: 10655776
title: Infections with flaviviridae
abstract: The family of the Flaviviridae contains 3 genera: (i) the hepaciviruses, to which belongs Hepatitis C virus (HCV), (ii) the flaviviruses and (iii) the pestiviruses. Over 140 million people, more than four times the number of HIV-positive individuals, are chronically infected with the HCV. Hepatitis G virus (HGV) has not yet been assigned to a genus. The impact of this recently discovered virus is yet to be established. Infections with flaviviruses such as Yellow Fever virus (YFV), Dengue Fever virus (DENV), Japanese Encephalitis virus (JEV) and Tick-borne Encephalitis virus (TBEV) are emerging world-wide. The Pestiviruses, Bovine Viral Diarrhea virus (BVDV), Classical Swine Fever virus (CSFV) and Border Disease virus (BDV) have a serious impact on life-stock. At present, only treatment with interferon, alone or combined with ribavirin, has been approved for the treatment of HCV infections. No specific antivirals are available for the treatment of infections with Hepaci-, Flavi- or Pestiviruses. Possible targets for inhibition of the replication of Flaviviridae are the binding to, and the uptake of the virus in the cell; the internal ribosomal entry site (IRES) of Hepaci- and Pestiviruses; viral proteases; the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and the viral helicase. The search for specific inhibitors of HCV replication is hindered by the absence of an efficient cell culture system for propagation of this virus. In addition, small laboratory animals, including mice, are not susceptible to HCV infection. Flaviviruses may cause infection in mice, but do so mainly following direct intracerebral inoculation. We have established a small animal model for flavivirus infections in SCID mice inoculated peripherally with the murine flavivirus Modoc.


pmid: 9926403
title: Phylogenetic evidence for the improved RNA higher-order structure in internal ribosome entry sequences of HCV and pestiviruses
abstract: The strong requirement for a small segment of the 5'-proximal coding sequence of hepatitis C virus (HCV) is one of the most remarkable features in the internal initiation of HCV mRNA translation. Phylogenetic analysis and RNA folding indicate a common RNA structure of the 5' untranslated region (UTR) of HCV and the animal pestiviruses, including HCV types 1-11, bovine viral diarrhea (BVDV), border disease virus (BDV) and hog cholera (HoCV). Although the common RNA structure shares similar features to that proposed for the internal ribosome entry sequence (IRES) of picornavirus, phylogenetic evidence suggests four new tertiary interactions between conserved terminal hairpin loops and between the terminal hairpin loop of F2b and the short coding sequence for HCV and pestiviruses. We suggest that the higher-order structures of IRES cis-acting elements for HCV and animal pestivirus are composed of stem-loop structures B-C, domains E-H, stem-loop structure J and four additional tertiary interactions. The common structure of IRES elements for these viruses forms a compact structure by these tertiary interactions and stem stacking. The active structural core is centered in the junction domain of E-H that is also conserved in all members of picornaviruses. Our model suggests that the requirement for a small segment of the 5' coding sequence is to form the distinct tertiary structure that facilitates the cis-acting function of the HCV IRES in the internal initiation of the translational control.


pmid: 8545967
title: Experimentally induced "late-onset" mucosal disease--characterization of the cytopathogenic viruses isolated
abstract: Antigenic and genetic analyses were performed in order to establish relationships between the noncytopathogenic (ncp) and the cytopathogenic (cp) bovine viral diarrhoea viruses (BVDV) involved in the induction of a case of experimentally induced "late-onset" mucosal disease (MD) symptoms. The persistent ncpBVDV, the cpBVDV used for superinfection (strain TGAC) and the virus isolates from faeces (cpX) were examined using an immunoplaque test (IPT) to distinguish between cp and ncp virus populations. The cp populations were cloned by plaque purification and found to be free of ncpBVDV when using the IPT. The cpBVDV clones and the persistent ncpBVDV were analysed in an enzyme immunoassay on heat-fixed infected cells (IM-EIA) and in a neutralization test using a panel of 27 monoclonal antibodies against the E0 (gp48) and E2 (gp53) viral glycoproteins. It was found that strain TGAC contained two antigenically distinct subpopulations of cpBVDV (TGAC-B1 and TGAC-B2). The endogenous ncpBVDV and the cpX clones had the same reactivity pattern in both tests. In addition, p80 gene duplications in the genomes of the cpBVDV clones were analysed using the polymerase chain reaction and subsequent restriction enzyme analysis of the amplicons. The clones analysed from TGAC-B1 and those from cpX had gene duplications of identical sizes showing the same restriction enzyme patterns. Our results suggest that the cpBVDV which finally lead to "late-onset" MD arose by recombination and/or by mutations of the cpBVDV used for superinfection.


pmid: 17170448
title: Expression of the surface glycoprotein E2 of Bovine viral diarrhea virus by recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus
abstract: This study analysed the transport behaviour of the glycoprotein E2 of Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) expressed from recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus (rVSV). E2 protein was found to be retained at an intracellular compartment. A chimeric protein containing the membrane anchor and cytoplasmic tail of the VSV G protein, E2-G(MT), was transported to the cell surface. Only the latter protein was incorporated into rVSV particles in significant amounts. A soluble form of E2 lacking the membrane anchor, E2(MTdel), appeared to be affected in conformational stability. In contrast to both membrane-anchored forms of E2, expression of the soluble form was detectable only by immunofluorescence microscopy but not by Western blotting. These results are in agreement with reports of intracellular retention of the E2 protein due to a retention signal in the membrane anchor. However, in another analysis of E2 expressed from rVSV, E2 protein was reported to be transported to the cell surface and incorporated into VSV particles [Grigera, P. R., Marzocca, M. P., Capozzo, A. V. E., Buonocore, L., Donis, R. O. & Rose, J. K. (2000). Virus Res 69, 3-15]. Reasons for these contradictory results are discussed.


pmid: 18512457
title: A comparison of 2 vaccination programs in feedlot calves at ultra-high risk of developing undifferentiated fever/bovine respiratory disease
abstract: The aim of this study was to compare 2 vaccination programs in feedlot calves at ultra-high risk of developing undifferentiated fever (UF)/bovine respiratory disease (BRD). At feedlot arrival, 3882 calves were enrolled in the study and randomly allocated to 2 groups, which were housed by group in 12 pens. At the time of allocation, 1 group (MLV3-BT2) received a multivalent, modified-live viral vaccine containing infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBRV) and types I and II bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), as well as a Mannheimia haemolytica (MH) and Pasteurella multocida bacterin-toxoid. The other group (MLV4-BT1) received a vaccine containing IIBRV, type I BVDV, bovine respiratory syncytial virus, and parainfluenza-3 virus, as well as a MH bacterin-toxoid. At an average of 69 days post arrival, the groups received their respective viral vaccines. The initial UF treatment, overall chronicity, overall wastage, overall mortality, and BRD mortality rates were significantly (P < 0.05) lower in the MLV3-BT2 group than in the MLV4-BT1 group. Average daily gain and the proportions of yield grade Canada 3 and quality grade E carcasses were significantly (P < 0.05) higher in the MLV3-BT2 group than in the MLV4-BT1 group. No significant (P > or = 0.05) difference in the dry matter intake to gain ratio was detected between the 2 groups. In economic terms, there was a net advantage of $20.86 CDN/animal in the MLV3-BT2 group. This study demonstrates that it is more cost effective to use an MLV3-BT2 vaccination program than a MLV4-BT1 vaccination program in feedlot calves at ultra-high risk of developing UF/BRD.


pmid: 18512457
title: A comparison of 2 vaccination programs in feedlot calves at ultra-high risk of developing undifferentiated fever/bovine respiratory disease
abstract: The aim of this study was to compare 2 vaccination programs in feedlot calves at ultra-high risk of developing undifferentiated fever (UF)/bovine respiratory disease (BRD). At feedlot arrival, 3882 calves were enrolled in the study and randomly allocated to 2 groups, which were housed by group in 12 pens. At the time of allocation, 1 group (MLV3-BT2) received a multivalent, modified-live viral vaccine containing infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBRV) and types I and II bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), as well as a Mannheimia haemolytica (MH) and Pasteurella multocida bacterin-toxoid. The other group (MLV4-BT1) received a vaccine containing IIBRV, type I BVDV, bovine respiratory syncytial virus, and parainfluenza-3 virus, as well as a MH bacterin-toxoid. At an average of 69 days post arrival, the groups received their respective viral vaccines. The initial UF treatment, overall chronicity, overall wastage, overall mortality, and BRD mortality rates were significantly (P < 0.05) lower in the MLV3-BT2 group than in the MLV4-BT1 group. Average daily gain and the proportions of yield grade Canada 3 and quality grade E carcasses were significantly (P < 0.05) higher in the MLV3-BT2 group than in the MLV4-BT1 group. No significant (P > or = 0.05) difference in the dry matter intake to gain ratio was detected between the 2 groups. In economic terms, there was a net advantage of $20.86 CDN/animal in the MLV3-BT2 group. This study demonstrates that it is more cost effective to use an MLV3-BT2 vaccination program than a MLV4-BT1 vaccination program in feedlot calves at ultra-high risk of developing UF/BRD.


pmid: 25559665
title: Porcine complement regulatory protein CD46 and heparan sulfates are the major factors for classical swine fever virus attachment in vitro
abstract: Classical swine fever virus (CSFV) is the causative agent of a severe multi-systemic disease of pigs. While several aspects of virus-host-interaction are known, the early steps of infection remain unclear. For the closely related bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a cellular receptor is known: bovine complement regulatory protein CD46. Given that these two pestiviruses are closely related, porcine CD46 is also a candidate receptor for CSFV. In addition to CD46, cell-culture-adapted CSFV strains have been shown to use heparan sulfates as an additional cellular factor. In the present study, the interaction of field-type and cell-culture-adapted CSFV with a permanent porcine cell line or primary macrophages was assessed using anti-porcine CD46 monoclonal antibodies and a heparan-sulfate-blocking compound, DSTP-27. The influence of receptor blocking was assessed using virus titration and quantitative PCR. Treatment of cells with monoclonal antibodies against porcine CD46 led to a reduction of viral growth in both cell types. The effect was most pronounced with field-type CSFV. The blocking could be enhanced by addition of DSTP-27, especially for cell-culture-adapted CSFV. The combined use of both blocking agents led to a significant reduction of viral growth but was also not able to abolish infection completely. The results obtained in this study showed that both porcine CD46 and heparan sulfates play a major role in the initial steps of CSFV infection. Additional receptors might also play a role for attachment and entry; however, their impact is obviously limited in vitro in comparison to CD46 and heparan sulfates.


pmid: 18760610
title: Antimicrobial and cytotoxic arylazoenamines. Part III: antiviral activity of selected classes of arylazoenamines
abstract: Eighty-five arylazoenamines, characterized by different types of aryl and basic moieties, have been synthesized and evaluated in cell-based assays for cytotoxicity and antiviral activity against a panel of ten RNA and DNA viruses. The most commonly affected viruses were, in decreasing order, CVB-2, RSV, BVDV, YFV, and Sb-1; the remaining viruses were either not affected (HIV-1, VSV, and VV) or susceptible only to a very few compounds (Reo-1 and HSV-1). Thirty-five compounds exhibited high activity, with EC(50) in the range 0.8-10 microM, and other 28 compounds had EC(50) between 11 and 30 microM, thus indicating that the arylazoenamine molecular pattern is an interesting novel pharmacophore for antiviral agents against ssRNA viruses. Moreover, some compounds (as 28, 32, 42, and 53) appear of high interest, being devoid of toxicity on the human MT-4 cells (CC(50)>100 microM). A ligand-based computational approach was employed to identify highly predictive pharmacophore models for the most frequently affected viruses CVB-2, RSV, and BVDV. These models should allow the design of second generation of more potent inhibitors of these human and veterinary pathogens.


pmid: 17601636
title: Resistance of surface-dried virus to common disinfection procedures
abstract: It is believed that surface-dried viruses can remain infectious and may therefore pose a threat to public health. To help address this issue, we studied 0.1 N NaOH and 0.1% hypochlorite for their capacity to inactivate surface-dried lipid-enveloped (LE) [human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and pseudorabies virus (PRV)] and non-lipid-enveloped [NLE; canine parvovirus (CPV) and hepatitis A virus (HAV)] viruses in a background of either plasma or culture medium. In addition, 80% ethanol was tested on surface-dried LE viruses. Without treatment, surface-dried LE viruses remained infectious for at least one week and NLE viruses for more than one month. Irrespective of the disinfectant, inactivation decreased for viruses dried in plasma, which is more representative of viral contaminated blood than virus in culture medium. Inactivation by all disinfectants improved when preceded by rehydration, although the infectivity of CPV actually increased after rehydration and disinfection may thus be overestimated in the absence of rehydration. This is the first comprehensive study of five important (model) viruses in a surface-dried state showing persistence of infectivity, resistance to three commonly used disinfectants and restoration of susceptibility after rehydration. Our results may have implications for hygiene measurements in the prevention of virus transmission.


pmid: 16613724
title: Amino acid derivatives. Part I. Synthesis, antiviral and antitumor evaluation of new alpha-amino acid esters bearing coumarin side chain
abstract: A series of amino acid esters bearing coumarin (3-15) were synthesized and evaluated, in vitro, against HIV-1, and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). The in vitro cytotoxicity of 3-10 and 12 was assayed against a panel of tumor cell lines consisting of CD4 human T-cells. Compound 14 showed inhibition of HIV-1 with EC50 > 1.6 microg mL(-1), meanwhile compound 9 exhibited activity against leukaemia (MT4) with CC50 = 24 micromol L(-1).


pmid: 8806512
title: Fine mapping of a C-terminal linear epitope highly conserved among the major envelope glycoprotein E2 (gp51 to gp54) of different pestiviruses
abstract: Envelope glycoprotein E2 (gp51 to gp54) is the major neutralizing antigen of pestiviruses, which include classical swine fever virus (CSFV), bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), and border disease virus (BVD). Previous studies carried out using a panel of monoclonal antibodies raised against CSFV strain Brescia have revealed the existence of four antigenic domains, A to D, of the E2 protein, all of which are located at the N-terminal half of the molecule. Here we report the detailed mapping, using three complementary techniques, of a novel linear epitope located at the C-terminal part of the molecule, which reacted with a monoclonal antibody (4-9D4) as well as polyclonal animal sera. This epitope is highly conserved in the three different members of pestiviruses and hence can be used as a genus-specific diagnosis tool. The observation that this epitope is not accessible on the native virus surface, together with its C-terminal location, supports a recently proposed structural model, indicating that the C-terminal part of E2 is membrane-bound while the N-terminal half of the molecule is exposed on the virus surface.


pmid: 8269363
title: Epidemiological study of enzootic pneumonia in dairy calves in Saskatchewan
abstract: A field study involving 325 calves from 17 dairy herds in Saskatchewan was conducted to determine the risk of enzootic pneumonia and to assess its association with a number of factors. Two different case definitions of pneumonia were used in the analyses: the first was based on producers' treatment risk (CASE1) and the second was based on semimonthly clinical examinations of calves by the research veterinarian (CASE2). The risk of pneumonia based on CASE1 was 39% and on CASE2 was 29%. The measure of agreement between CASE1 and CASE2 at the calf level of analysis was poor (kappa = 0.24, SE = 0.02) and at the herd level of analysis was moderate (kappa = 0.40, SE = 0.12). The mortality risk from pneumonia was 1.8% and a variety of infectious organisms were isolated from pneumonic lungs. Twenty-seven percent of the calves had inadequate (total IgG < or = 800 mg/dL) levels of passively acquired antibodies as measured by radial immunodiffusion. The proportion of seropositive titers in calves within the first two weeks of age was 94% to parainfluenza 3 virus (PI3V) and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), 73% to Pasteurella haemolytica (Ph), 68% to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), 67% to infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBRV), 46% to Mycoplasma dispar (Md), 44% to Haemophilus somnus (Hs), and 21% to Mycoplasma bovis (Mb). At the calf level of analysis and after adjusting for clustering, there was a negative association (p = 0.10) between the diagnosis of pneumonia based on CASE2 and total IgG levels and Ph titers (rPh).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


pmid: 30394026
title: [Establishment and application of visual LAMP detection method of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus]
abstract: Three pairs of primers were designed according to the conserved region of IBRV gB gene published in GenBank(GenBank Accession No. DQ006857.1) using the software Primer Explorer V4. The loop mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) assay was established by optimization of the reaction system and then evaluated through sensitivity and specificity tests. In total 393 clinical specimens were detected for IBRV using the established LAMP assay performed at 65℃ for 50 min, which produced a ladder-like pattern of amplification bands and the detection result could be judged by color change. The sensitivity of the assay was 10 copies/μL plasmid DNA which was 1000 times higher than that by PCR method and equivalent to nested-PCR. There was no cross-reactivity of the assay with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), pseudorabies virus (PRV) and vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV). The positive rate of 301 nasal swabs and 92 serum specimens were 87.6% and 58.8%, respectively, which meant nasal swab specimen was more suitable for clinical IBRV detection by the method. The IBRV LAMP method established in this study has the advantages of visualization, quickness, specificity and sensitivity and be suitable for rapid detection of clinical IBRV detection on the spot.


pmid: 31014840
title: Transplacental transmission of Neospora caninum in moose (Alces alces)
abstract: A 5-years-old moose (Alces alces) cow kept in a zoo in the German Federal State of Brandenburg aborted a female foetus of 44cm crown rump length (CRL). Pathohistological analysis revealed several Neospora (N.) caninum infected cells and cysts, as well as multifocal gliosis, necrosis, haemorrhages, dystrophic mineralisation and haemosiderosis in the brain, predominantly in cerebrum and brainstem. In addition, mild lymphocytic meningitis was present. Together with the fresh foetus, a mummified foetus of 16cm CRL was expelled. Neither focal necrosis, nor inflammation was detected in the brain of the mummified foetus. By two polymerase chain reactions (PCR) targeting the pNc5 gene of N. caninum (i.e. an end point PCR and a real-time PCR), by two serological methods (immunofluorescence test and immunoblot), by histological and immunohistochemical analyses, transplacental N. caninum infection was confirmed in the fresh foetus and interpreted as possible cause of abortion. Infection with other agents causing abortion including Bovine Herpesvirus 1 (BHV1), Bluetongue Virus (BTV), Bovine Virus Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV), Brucella spp., Chlamydia spp., Coxiella burnetii and Toxoplasma gondii were excluded. Our findings show that control measures may be necessary to protect captive moose against accidental N. caninum infection. Further studies are needed to explore the importance of neosporosis in wild and captive moose.


pmid: 26369033
title: Complexation of a 1-Indanone Thiosemicarbazone with Hydroxypropyl-β-Cyclodextrin Enhances Its Activity Against a Hepatitis C Virus Surrogate Model
abstract: The current standard of care of the infection by hepatitis C virus (HCV) is effective in a limited number of patients and the high cost hinders therapy affordability and compliance. In this context, the research of new direct-acting antiviral agents (DAAs) for a more effective and long-lasting therapy is an urgent need and an area of active investigation. In an effort to develop novel DAAs, a series of 1-indanone thiosemicarbazones (TSCs) was synthesized and fully characterized. However, the high self-aggregation tendency and extremely poor aqueous solubility of these antiviral candidates often preclude their reliable biological evaluation in vitro. To maintain constant TSC concentrations over the biological assays, different TSC/cyclodextrin complexes were produced. In the present work, we report for the first time the cytotoxicity and antiviral activity of 5,6-dimethoxy TSC inclusion complexes with hydroxypropyl-β-cyclodextrin on bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) as HCV surrogate model. Results showed a potent suppression of the virus replication, with greater activity for the inclusion complexes than the free compound.


pmid: 25076758
title: [Preclinical study of AV0012 early stage inhibitor of hepatitis C virus infection: I. In vitro ADME and pharmacokinetics]
abstract: In vitro immunohistochemical investigations on the human hepatoma cell line (Huh7) infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV) strain JFH-1 showed that AV0012 compound blocks the early stages of viral infection. AV0012 also blocked viral infection spread in tissue culture through the secreted virus and through tight cell-to-cell contact. AV0012 is a specific inhibitor of HCV but not of related pestivirus, flaviviruses and other RNA-containing viruses such as bovine diarrhea (BVDV), Venezuelan equine encephalitis (strain TC-83), dengue type 2 (New Guinea), yellow fever (strain 17D), west Nile fever, parainfluenza (type 3) virus, RSV (strain A2), and Rhinovirus (type 2 strain HGP). It is established that human serum does not significantly affect the antiviral activity of AV0012 in vitro. The drug combination studies with AV0012 and interferon alpha 2a in vitro showed that the two inhibitors act additively, which makes possible the use of this combination in clinical tests. AV0012 is highly soluble and stable in aqueous solutions and murine blood plasma, has limited metabolic stability, low binding to human plasma proteins, high permeability through biological membranes, and only interacts with isoenzymes 2D6 and 3A4 of human cytochrome P450. In animal pharmacokinetic studies, AV0012 was rapidly absorbed into the blood stream upon oral administration, showed sufficiently long half-elimination times, and had high oral bioavailability that reached 92% in monkeys. Further preclinical development of AV0012 is in progress.


pmid: 17010039
title: Incidence of BVDV1 and BVDV2 infections in cattle submitted for necropsy in Northern Germany
abstract: The incidence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) 1 and 2 infections was determined in calves, young cattle and older cattle with signs of mucosal disease (MD) submitted for necropsy to three laboratories in Northern Germany between June 2000 and May 2001. At necropsy, tonsils, retropharyngeal lymph nodes, mesenteric lymph nodes, ileal Peyer's patch and spleen were collected and examined by immunohistochemistry and virus isolation. From 311 animals examined, 30 (9.6%) were positive for BVDV. All viral isolates were typed by polymerase chain reaction after reverse transcription using species-specific primers and determined to be BVDV1. Based on the distribution of lesions and viral antigen, animals with MD, persistent infection (PI) and acute, transient infection could be distinguished. Twelve of the positive animals had characteristic signs of MD: severe diarrhoea, erosive to ulcerative lesions throughout the digestive tract and severe depletion of all lymphoid tissues. Viral antigen was present in all tissues and cell types, but particularly in depleted lymphoid follicles and altered epithelium. In seven calves, viral antigen was detectable in all tissues and cell types, but lesions were mild or missing. This is typical for PI. The remaining 11 calves most likely represent animals with acute, transient infection. Distribution of antigen was more variable, predominantly restricted to lymphoid follicles and often not seen in all tissues examined. Clinical findings were combined bronchopneumonia and enteritis. The detection of BVDV1 in young calves with pneumonia and enteritis emphasizes the importance of BVDV1 and not only BVDV2 for severe respiratory and enteric diseases of calves.


pmid: 31984679
title: Seroprevalence of canine neosporosis and bovine viral diarrhoea in dairy cattle in selected regions of Kenya
abstract: Neospora caninum is the causative agent for canine neosporosis (CN), a disease of potential zoonotic importance causing reproductive losses in cattle while causing neuromuscular disease in dogs. Bovine viral diarrhoea on the other hand is caused by the bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and is one of the most important reproductive diseases of cattle worldwide. In Kenya, these infections are of economic importance due to the losses they cause in farms in which they are diagnosed or are subclinical. Such losses include reduced milk production, reduced conception, early embryonic deaths and abortions which lead to reproductive wastage. This study was conducted between April 2017 and July 2018 and determined the seroprevalence of neoporosis and BVD in select dairy herds in Kenya. Kakamega, Nandi and Makueni Counties from where dairy farms were purposively sampled were used. Serum samples were collected from randomly selected dairy animals aged at least 2 years in the selected farms and screened for BVDV and CN antibodies. Seroprevalence of N. caninum was 24.1% (n = 552) and BVD, 52.3% (n = 545) across all the counties. Co-infection where antibodies against the two infective agents were present was in 14.6% (n = 541) animals. Chi-square tests of association between prevalence and county were significant for BVD (p = .000) but not for neosporosis (p = .626). Further chi-square tests of association between the two infections were not significant (p = .105) neither were the associations of BVD (p = .575) and neosporosis (p = .626) on pregnancy status. These two diseases are rarely investigated as causes of bovine infertility. Detection of antibodies in the studied dairy herds underpins the need for enhanced surveillance by laboratories and for further studies to understand associated risk factors to formulate effective control strategies in dairy cattle to forestall abortions and production and reproduction losses.


pmid: 29062078
title: Design and evaluation of the immunogenicity and efficacy of a biomimetic particulate formulation of viral antigens
abstract: Subunit viral vaccines are typically not as efficient as live attenuated or inactivated vaccines at inducing protective immune responses. This paper describes an alternative 'biomimetic' technology; whereby viral antigens were formulated around a polymeric shell in a rationally arranged fashion with a surface glycoprotein coated on to the surface and non-structural antigen and adjuvant encapsulated. We evaluated this model using BVDV E2 and NS3 proteins formulated in poly-(D, L-lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) nanoparticles adjuvanted with polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid (poly(I:C) as an adjuvant (Vaccine-NP). This Vaccine-NP was compared to ovalbumin and poly(I:C) formulated in a similar manner (Control-NP) and a commercial adjuvanted inactivated BVDV vaccine (IAV), all inoculated subcutaneously and boosted prior to BVDV-1 challenge. Significant virus-neutralizing activity, and E2 and NS3 specific antibodies were observed in both Vaccine-NP and IAV groups following the booster immunisation. IFN-γ responses were observed in ex vivo PBMC stimulated with E2 and NS3 proteins in both vaccinated groups. We observed that the protection afforded by the particulate vaccine was comparable to the licenced IAV formulation. In conclusion, the biomimetic particulates showed a promising immunogenicity and efficacy profile that may be improved by virtue of being a customisable mode of delivery.


pmid: 25525134
title: Estimation of nasal shedding and seroprevalence of organisms known to be associated with bovine respiratory disease in Australian live export cattle
abstract: The prevalence of organisms known to be associated with bovine respiratory disease (BRD) was investigated in cattle prior to export. A quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay was used to detect nucleic acids from the following viruses and bacteria in nasal swab samples: Bovine coronavirus (BoCV; Betacoronavirus 1), Bovine herpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1), Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1), Bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), Bovine parainfluenza virus 3 (BPIV-3), Histophilus somni, Mycoplasma bovis, Mannheimia haemolytica, and Pasteurella multocida. Between 2010 and 2012, nasal swabs were collected from 1,484 apparently healthy cattle destined for export to the Middle East and Russian Federation. In addition, whole blood samples from 334 animals were tested for antibodies to BoHV-1, BRSV, BVDV-1, and BPIV-3 using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The nasal prevalence of BoCV at the individual animal level was 40.1%. The nasal and seroprevalence of BoHV-1, BRSV, BVDV-1, and BPIV-3 was 1.0% and 39%, 1.2% and 46%, 3.0% and 56%, and 1.4% and 87%, respectively. The nasal prevalence of H. somni, M. bovis, M. haemolytica, and P. multocida was 42%, 4.8%, 13.4%, and 26%, respectively. Significant differences in nasal and seroprevalence were detected between groups of animals from different geographical locations. The results of the current study provide baseline data on the prevalence of organisms associated with BRD in Australian live export cattle in the preassembly period. This data could be used to develop strategies for BRD prevention and control prior to loading.


pmid: 34184109
title: Cattle seroprevalence and risk factors associated with bovine viral diarrhea in the northeastern of Colombia
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) is one of the most common and economically significant viral infections in cattle. Different risk factors have been associated with viral exposure and transmission, generating endemic regions with different biotype circulations. To find the BVD status in the northeastern region of Colombia, this study aimed to determine the seroprevalence and risk factors associated with the disease in non-vaccinated farms. For this purpose, a two-time point sampling strategy was developed, obtaining serum from 1157 animals housed in 25 farms distributed in 46 townships, thus for antibody detection against non-structural protein 3 (NS3, p80) of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) using an indirect ELISA test. For the first time in Colombia, the presence of serological persistent cattle was evaluated in 1047 animals 3 weeks later of first sampling. The information on a standardized questionnaire with closed and dichotomic answers was used to calculate the putative risk factors. The association analysis by univariate and multivariate logistic regression reported odds ratios (OR) with a 95% of confidence interval (C.I). The overall seroprevalence was 65% (95% CI 62.5-72.9%), with variations according to age ranges. The prevalence of persistent serological positive corresponded to 37.7% (95% CI 34.2-41.5). The risk factors found by multivariate analyses were the lease of pastures (OR = 2.071 CI 1.485-3.690), the use of the same needle (OR = 2.249 CI 1.354-3.736), the molasses supplementation (OR = 2.742 CI 1.156-5.807), and the native Creole breed (OR = 1.895 CI 1.416-2.804). The results of this study confirmed the endemism and higher common exposure to BVDV, as well as the presence of serological persistent cattle in Valledupar, Colombia.


pmid: 31215610
title: Coxiella burnetii associated with BVDV (Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus), BoHV (Bovine Herpesvirus), Leptospira spp., Neospora caninum, Toxoplasma gondii and Trypanosoma vivax in reproductive disorders in cattle
abstract: This is a cross-sectional study to assess the presence of antibodies in ruminants against selected pathogens associated with reproductive disorders in cattle in four Brazilian states, including the zoonotic agent Coxiella burnetii. The used tests were Virus Neutralization Assay for IBR and BVD, Microscopic Agglutination Test for Leptospira spp., Indirect Fluorescent Antibody Test (IFAT) for C. burnetii and Toxoplasma gondii, and Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay for Neospora caninum and Trypanosoma vivax. Seropositivity for C. burnetii was 13.7% with titers from 128 to 131,072; 57.8% for BoHV-1, with titers between 2 and 1,024; 47.1% for BVDV-1a, with titers from 10 to 5,120; 89.2% for N. caninum; 50% for T. vivax; and 52.0% for Leptospira spp., with titers between 100 to 800 (the following serovars were found: Tarassovi, Grippotyphosa, Canicola, Copenhageni, Wolffi, Hardjo, Pomona and Icterohaemorrhagiae); 19.6% for T. gondii with titer of 40. This is the first study that has identified C. burnetii in cattle associated with BoHV and BVDV, N. caninum, Leptospira spp., T. gondii and T. vivax. Thus, future studies should be conducted to investigate how widespread this pathogen is in Brazilian cattle herds.


pmid: 29105570
title: Molecular survey of infectious agents associated with bovine respiratory disease in a beef cattle feedlot in southern Brazil
abstract: We investigated the occurrence of infectious pathogens during an outbreak of bovine respiratory disease (BRD) in a beef cattle feedlot in southern Brazil that has a high risk of developing BRD. Nasopharyngeal swabs were randomly collected from steers ( n = 23) and assessed for the presence of infectious agents of BRD by PCR and/or RT-PCR assays. These included: Histophilus somni, Mannheimia haemolytica, Pasteurella multocida, Mycoplasma bovis, bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), bovine coronavirus (BCoV), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine alphaherpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1), and bovine parainfluenza virus 3 (BPIV-3). Pulmonary sections of one steer that died with clinical BRD were submitted for pathology and molecular testing. The frequencies of the pathogens identified from the nasopharyngeal swabs were: H. somni 39% (9 of 23), BRSV 35% (8 of 23), BCoV 22% (5 of 23), and M. haemolytica 13% (3 of 23). PCR or RT-PCR assays did not identify P. multocida, M. bovis, BoHV-1, BVDV, or BPIV-3 from the nasopharyngeal swabs. Single and concomitant associations of infectious agents of BRD were identified. Fibrinous bronchopneumonia was diagnosed in one steer that died; samples were positive for H. somni and M. haemolytica by PCR. H. somni, BRSV, and BCoV are important disease pathogens of BRD in feedlot cattle in Brazil, but H. somni and BCoV are probably under-reported.


pmid: 25747802
title: XRN1 stalling in the 5' UTR of Hepatitis C virus and Bovine Viral Diarrhea virus is associated with dysregulated host mRNA stability
abstract: We demonstrate that both Hepatitis C virus (HCV) and Bovine Viral Diarrhea virus (BVDV) contain regions in their 5' UTRs that stall and repress the enzymatic activity of the cellular 5'-3' exoribonuclease XRN1, resulting in dramatic changes in the stability of cellular mRNAs. We used biochemical assays, virus infections, and transfection of the HCV and BVDV 5' untranslated regions in the absence of other viral gene products to directly demonstrate the existence and mechanism of this novel host-virus interaction. In the context of HCV infection, we observed globally increased stability of mRNAs resulting in significant increases in abundance of normally short-lived mRNAs encoding a variety of relevant oncogenes and angiogenesis factors. These findings suggest that non-coding regions from multiple genera of the Flaviviridae interfere with XRN1 and impact post-transcriptional processes, causing global dysregulation of cellular gene expression which may promote cell growth and pathogenesis.


pmid: 18826332
title: Beta-defensin antibiotic peptides in the innate immunity of the buffalo: in vivo and in vitro studies
abstract: Beta-defensin antimicrobial peptides are multifunctional biomolecules, which are a major component of the oxygen-independent microbicidal system of buffalo polymorphonuclear (PMN) cells. They have great potential for use as proteomic biomarkers of host cell responses in the presence of microbial agents. On purifying these peptides by RP-HPLC, four defensin peptides were revealed. The results from testing against Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pyogenes, Candida albicans, Rinderpest Virus (RPV) and Newcastle Disease Virus (NDV), showed that the peptides possessed antimicrobial and antiviral activities. Minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) values varied according to the peptide amounts and the exposure time. Furthermore, an increase in the levels of these cationic antimicrobial peptides was apparent in milk obtained from natural cases of mastitis, as compared to the levels in normal milk. MALDI-TOF-based amino acid sequencing confirmed the expression of two beta-defensins (LAP and BNBD-2) in mastitis milk. A comparison of peptide sequences revealed that buffalo LAP and BNBD-2 share 98.6% and 100% sequence identity, respectively, with those of cattle. In vitro, Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV) infection was shown to induce the expression of the beta-defensin gene, as evidenced by the PCR amplification of cDNA with specific primers. The determination of the enhanced expression of beta-defensin peptides in mastitis milk and in PMN cells, can be considered as an advanced approach to the assessment of cellular and molecular responses to cell injury. It is hoped that in vitro studies on phagocytes such as PMN cells and other cell lines, will eventually replace the use of animals in elucidating the roles of these cytokines in response to microbe-derived cell damage. It will also be possible to use defensins as biomarkers to correlate failure in host cell defence systems with peptide heterogeneity.


pmid: 12072240
title: Analysis of the repertoire of cattle CD4(+) T cells reactive with bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Cell-mediated immunity and CD4(+) cells in particular are important for the resolution of acute infection with non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). CD4(+) T cells were shown to recognise virus-infected and non-infectious-protein-pulsed APCs, whereas CD8(+) T cells recognised only virus-infected APCs. T cell recognition was strain cross-reactive and MHC-restricted. Using native and recombinant antigens, we identified the structural glycoprotein E2 and the non-structural protein NS3 as dominant CD4(+) T cell determinants. The repertoire of CD4(+) T cell responses to E2 and NS3 was examined using inbred, homozygous cattle and overlapping synthetic peptides. The repertoire was biased toward conserved regions of NS3 and excluded the hypervariable regions of E2. The number of peptides that were recognised varied between animals but patterns could be distinguished in those animals that shared the same DRB3(*) allele. Of particular interest were: (i) a determinant that was recognised in the context of both DRB3(*) alleles (i.e. DRB3(*)2002 and DRB3(*)0701), (ii) two determinants that were juxtaposed to B cell sites, and (iii) a determinant that had structural analogy with a NS3 epitope previously described for the closely related hepatitis C virus. The minimum stimulatory sequence of the latter, NS3(397-414), was located to residues NS3(400-410).


pmid: 11325472
title: Characterization of monoclonal antibodies that specifically recognize the palm subdomain of hepatitis C virus nonstructural protein 5B polymerase
abstract: The nonstructural protein 5B (NS5B) of hepatitis C virus (HCV) is an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) which plays an essential role in viral RNA replication. Antibodies that specifically recognize NS5B will have utilities in monitoring NS5B production and subcellular localization, as well as in structure-function studies. In this report, three mouse monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), 16A9C9, 16D9A4 and 20A12C7, against a recombinant NS5B protein (genotype 1a, H-77 strain) were produced. These mAbs specifically recognize HCV NS5B, but not RdRps of polivirus (PV), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) or GB virus B (GBV-B). The mAbs can readily detect NS5B in cellular lysates of human osteosarcoma Saos2 cells constitutively expressing the nonstructural region of HCV (NS3-NS4A-NS4B-NS5A-NS5B). NS5B proteins of different HCV genotypes/subtypes (1a, 1b, 2a, 2c, 5a) showed varied affinity for these mAbs. Interestingly, the epitopes for the mAbs were mapped to the palm subdomain (amino acid 188-370) of the HCV RdRp as determined by immunoblotting analysis of a panel of HCV/GBV-B chimeric NS5B proteins. The binding site was mapped between amino acid 231 and 267 of NS5B for 16A9C9, and between 282 and 372 for 16D9A4 and 20A12C7. Furthermore, these mAbs showed no inhibitory effect on the NS5B polymerase activity in vitro.


pmid: 11018733
title: A hierarchical trend model for bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) sero-conversion in Norwegian dairy herds from 1993 through 1997
abstract: The Norwegian bovine virus diarrhoea (BVD) control-and-eradication program performed annual testing of the national cattle population since its first screening in January 1993. A bulk-tank milk ELISA antibody test was used for the initial screening of dairy herds. Based on the annual bulk-tank milk-test result, a binary variable denoting herd sero-conversion (a surrogate measure for incidence) was created. The count of herds with sero-conversion in each community was regressed on year and the initial herd-sero-prevalence for each community in a Poisson hierarchical trend model - modelling the risk of sero-conversion. By using this modelling approach, estimates of trend specific for each hierarchical level of organisation were included in the trend model (community, veterinary district and county) could be estimated. The main BVD trend showed a steadily declining sero-conversion risk. The communities in the highest herd-sero-prevalence quartile in 1993 continued to have the highest sero-conversion risk throughout the study period--decreasing from an average predicted sero-conversion risk in 1993 of 0.12 (95% CI; 0.10, 0.13) to 0.02 (0.007, 0.04) in 1997. There was an expressed variation in the level of sero-conversion for all the three hierarchical levels, but the trend only varied at the lowest level (community).


pmid: 25747802
title: XRN1 stalling in the 5' UTR of Hepatitis C virus and Bovine Viral Diarrhea virus is associated with dysregulated host mRNA stability
abstract: We demonstrate that both Hepatitis C virus (HCV) and Bovine Viral Diarrhea virus (BVDV) contain regions in their 5' UTRs that stall and repress the enzymatic activity of the cellular 5'-3' exoribonuclease XRN1, resulting in dramatic changes in the stability of cellular mRNAs. We used biochemical assays, virus infections, and transfection of the HCV and BVDV 5' untranslated regions in the absence of other viral gene products to directly demonstrate the existence and mechanism of this novel host-virus interaction. In the context of HCV infection, we observed globally increased stability of mRNAs resulting in significant increases in abundance of normally short-lived mRNAs encoding a variety of relevant oncogenes and angiogenesis factors. These findings suggest that non-coding regions from multiple genera of the Flaviviridae interfere with XRN1 and impact post-transcriptional processes, causing global dysregulation of cellular gene expression which may promote cell growth and pathogenesis.


pmid: 28545321
title: Virus detection by PCR following vaccination of naive calves with intranasal or injectable multivalent modified-live viral vaccines
abstract: We evaluated duration of PCR-positive results following administration of modified-live viral (MLV) vaccines to beef calves. Twenty beef calves were randomly assigned to either group 1 and vaccinated intranasally with a MLV vaccine containing bovine alphaherpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), and bovine parainfluenza virus 3 (BPIV-3), or to group 2 and vaccinated subcutaneously with a MLV vaccine containing bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 and 2 (BVDV-1, -2), BoHV-1, BRSV, and BPIV-3. Deep nasopharyngeal swabs (NPS) and transtracheal washes (TTW) were collected from all calves, and whole blood was collected from group 2 calves and tested by PCR. In group 1, the proportions of calves that tested PCR-positive to BVDV, BoHV-1, BRSV, and BPIV-3 on any sample at any time were 0%, 100%, 100%, and 10%, respectively. In group 1 calves, 100% of calves became PCR-positive for BoHV-1 by day 3 post-vaccination and 100% of calves became PCR-positive for BRSV by day 7 post-vaccination. In group 2, the proportions of calves that tested positive to BVDV, BoHV-1, BRSV, and BPIV-3 on any sample at any time were 50%, 40%, 10%, and 0%, respectively. All threshold cycle (Ct) values were >30 in group 2 calves, irrespective of virus; however, Ct values <25 were observed in group 1 calves from PCR-positive results for BoHV-1 and BRSV. All calves were PCR-negative for all viruses after day 28. Following intranasal MLV viral vaccination, PCR results and Ct values for BRSV and BoHV-1 suggest that attempts to differentiate vaccine virus from natural infection is unreliable.


pmid: 25301283
title: Identification and molecular characterization of novel and divergent HoBi-like pestiviruses from naturally infected cattle in India
abstract: HoBi-like pestiviruses have been sporadically reported from naturally infected cattle in South America, Asia and Europe. While the closely related bovine viral diarrhoea virus 1 (BVDV-1) and BVDV-2 have been reported from cattle in India, the prevalence and diversity of HoBi-like viruses have not yet been studied. Here we report the genetic diversity and molecular characteristics of HoBi-like viruses, through systematic surveillance in cattle (n=1049) from 21 dairy farms across India during 2012-2013. On the basis of real-time RT-PCR, virus isolation and nucleotide sequencing results, of the 20 pestivirus positive cattle, HoBi-like viruses were identified in 19 cattle from four farms in three states and BVDV-1b in one cattle. Phylogenetic analysis of 5'-UTR and N(pro) region identified the circulation of two lineages of HoBi-like viruses in India, that were distinct to those circulating globally, highlighting the independent evolution of at least three lineages of HoBi-like viruses globally. Antigenic differences were also evident between the two Indian lineages. In addition to revealing that HoBi-like virus may be more widespread in Indian cattle than previously reported, this study shows greater genetic divergence of HoBi-like viruses indicating a need for continued pestivirus surveillance in cattle.


pmid: 29912425
title: Effects of a Saccharomyces cerevisiae fermentation product in receiving diets of newly weaned beef steers. I. Growth performance and antioxidant defense1
abstract: To evaluate the effects of a Saccharomyces cerevisiae fermentation product (SCFP; Original XPC, Diamond V, Cedar Rapids, IA) on growth performance and antioxidant defense of newly weaned beef cattle, 180 single-source steers (278 ± 21 kg; SD) were used in a 56-d receiving study. Seven days after arrival, steers were blocked by body weight (BW) to pens of 6 and randomly assigned to treatments: SCFP at 0 (CON), 14 (SCFP14), or 28 (SCFP28) g·steer-1·d-1. Pen was the experimental unit (n = 10 per treatment). On day 0, steers were boostered against Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) Type 1 and 2 (Vista Once, Merck, Madison, NJ). Weights were collected on days 1, 0, 14, 27, 42, 55, and 56. One steer per pen was bled on days 0, 14, 27, 42, and 56 for analysis of BVDV antibody titers; blood from days 0, 27, and 56 was analyzed for red blood cell lysate superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity and glutathione (total = tGSH, oxidized = GSSG, and reduced = GSH) concentrations, plasma malondialdehyde (MDA) concentrations, and serum lysozyme activity. Performance and blood data were analyzed as a randomized complete block design using Proc Mixed of SAS with fixed effects of treatment and block and random effect of pen. Linear and quadratic contrast statements were used. Antibody titers were log transformed and analyzed as repeated measures. There were no treatment by day interactions (P ≥ 0.16), and no linear or quadratic effects of SCFP on feedlot performance, antibody titers, or lysozyme activity (P > 0.10). Day 27 MDA concentrations tended to linearly increase (P = 0.09). A quadratic effect of SCFP on day 56 SOD activity (P = 0.004) was driven by lesser activity for SCFP14-fed steers. On day 27, a tendency for a quadratic effect of SCFP (P = 0.09) on GSH was driven by greater concentrations for SCFP14-fed steers resulting in a lesser GSSG:GSH ratio (P = 0.05). Greater GSH for SCFP14-fed steers caused a tendency for a quadratic effect on day 56 (P = 0.07); however, this did not result in an effect of SCFP on the GSSG:GSH ratio (P ≥ 0.25). A tendency for a linear effect of SCFP on tGSH was noted on day 56 (P = 0.09). Morbidity data were analyzed using Proc Glimmix of SAS. There was a quadratic effect of SCFP on percentage of respiratory treatments prior to day 14 (P = 0.04). These results could indicate lesser levels of oxidative stress for steers receiving SCFP at 14 vs. 0 or 28 g/d. Under the conditions of this study, no performance benefit of SCFP was noted.


pmid: 25110118
title: Evaluation of viral inactivation of pseudorabies virus, encephalomyocarditis virus, bovine viral diarrhea virus and porcine parvovirus in pancreatin of porcine origin
abstract: Pancreatin is a substance containing enzymes, principally amylase, lipase, and protease. It is obtained from bovine or porcine pancreas and used in the treatment of pancreatic endocrine insufficiency in humans. Regulations and safety concerns mandate viral clearance (virus removal or inactivation) in biopharmaceuticals such as pancreatin. A virus validation study was performed to evaluate virus clearance achieved in the final step of drying under vacuum by testing a panel of four animal viruses: Pseudorabies virus (PRV), Encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV), Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and Porcine parvovirus (PPV). Because of the product's virucidal effect and high cytotoxicity, the starting material was diluted to a ratio of 0.67 g of dried pancreatin resuspended in 13.5 mL of cell culture medium followed by a 50-fold dilution in cell culture medium before spiking. After heating at 60±1°C for 5 h, the samples were diluted about 5-fold in cell culture medium and titered by the plaque assay method. The virus reduction factor ranged from 5.59 (for PPV) to 7.07 (for EMCV) and no viral plaque was observed, indicating that the process step was effective in the reduction and removal of virus contamination. Though no virus contamination events in pancreatin have been reported to date, evaluation of the production process for its ability to inactivate and/or remove virus contamination, particularly from zoonotic viral agents such as hepatitis E virus and Norovirus considered emerging pathogens, is necessary to ensure the viral safety of animal-derived biopharmaceuticals.


pmid: 20960287
title: An indirect ELISA of classical swine fever virus based on quadruple antigenic epitope peptide expressed in E.coli
abstract: In this study, a synthesized quadruple antigenic epitope gene region of the classical swine fever virus (CSFV) E2 glycoprotein was expressed in E. coli to a obtain target protein. This target protein was used as a coating antigen to establish an indirect ELISA for specifically detecting anti-CSFV antibodies in serum samples from pigs. The P/N cut-off value of this assay was 1.92 by receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) analysis based on 30 negative sera and 80 positive samples. The test gave 97.5% sensitivity and 96.7% specificity compared with the indirect hemagglutination (IHA) test. The inter-assay and intra-assay coefficients of variation (CVs) for 16 sera were both ≤6.8%. No cross-reactivity between the coating antigen and anti-bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) antibodies was observed.


pmid: 11170845
title: Development of a competitive ELISA using a truncated E2 recombinant protein as antigen for detection of antibodies to classical swine fever virus
abstract: The sequence encoding a truncated E2 glycoprotein of the Alfort/187 strain of classical swine fever virus (CSFV) was expressed in Escherichia coli using the pET expression system and the recombinant product purified by Ni-NTA agarose affinity chromatography. The antigenicity of this recombinant protein was demonstrated by immunoblot using anti- CSFV-specific antibodies. A monoclonal antibody was produced against the truncated E2 protein and used as competitor in an ELISA for the detection of antibodies to CSFV. Specific antibodies were demonstrated by competitive ELISA (C-ELISA) as early as 21 days post-infection (dpi) in experimentally infected pigs. Seroconversion was demonstrated by C-ELISA and neutralising peroxidase-linked assay (NPLA) in all infected animals by 4 weeks. No cross-reaction with antibodies to bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was seen in the C-ELISA using sera from experimentally infected pigs. The C-ELISA is not intended as a substitute for the NPLA. However, it is expected it will be useful for monitoring and prevalence studies. It will also assist in testing a large number of samples in the event of an outbreak.


pmid: 3034204
title: Variation in the intracellular polypeptide profiles from different isolates of bovine virus diarrhoea virus
abstract: Variation of the intracellular polypeptides induced in calf testis cells by 5 cloned isolates of bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV) was examined. Three of the isolates were cytopathic (NADL, C 2415 and Pe 515 c) and two were non-cytopathic (C 1226 and Pe 515 nc) in these cells. The isolates Pe 515 c and Pe 515 nc were both isolated from an animal with clinical signs of mucosal disease. In cells infected with NADL, 8 virus specific proteins (vp 1 to vp 8) with molecular weights ranging from 120,000 (vp 1) to 23,000 (vp 8) were detected. Isolates C 2415 and Pe 515 c gave a similar array of polypeptides to NADL, but the 3 cytopathic isolates could be distinguished by the variation in the molecular weights of some of the proteins. The non-cytopathic isolates could also be distinguished from each other by this type of molecular variation; however, one feature that characterised these strains, when compared to the cytopathic isolates, was the absence of vp 2. Comparison of the polypeptides induced by Pe 515 c and Pe 515 nc showed that apart from the lack of vp 2 in the Pe 515 nc virus profile, the molecular weights of the other viral proteins were similar. This supports serological evidence that for mucosal disease to occur the pair of cytopathic and non-cytopathic viruses must be closely related. Four of the polypeptides induced by Pe 515 c were shown to be glycoproteins.


pmid: 22944333
title: Synthesis and biological evaluation of novel homochiral carbocyclic nucleosides from 1-amino-2-indanols
abstract: New chiral purinyl and 8-azapurinyl carbanucleoside derivatives based on indanol were synthesized from commercial available (1S,2S)-trans-1-amino-2-indanol and (1R,2R)-trans-1-amino-2-indanol using a linear methodology. The antiviral activity and cytotoxicity of these compounds were evaluated against herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) in Vero cells, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in Mardin-Darby bovine kidney (MDBK) cells and hepatitis B virus (HBV) in HepG2 2.2.15 cell line. Three compounds, showed an inhibition of the HBsAg levels similar to reference drug lamivudine. One chloropurinyl nucleoside, derived from the cis-1-amino-2-indanol, was cytotoxic on MDBK cells and it could be a lead for developing anticancer agents.


pmid: 20709472
title: Epidemiology of Pestivirus infection in wild ungulates of the French South Alps
abstract: Inter-species transmission is often incriminated in the epidemiology of Pestivirus diseases. The purpose of this study was to investigate the prevalence of Pestivirus in some mountain wild ungulates and to determine their role in Pestivirus transmission, as mountain pastures are a place where cohabitations between wild and domestic ungulates are particularly high. Between 2003 and 2007, a longitudinal epidemiological study was carried out on hunted ungulates in the French Hautes-Alpes department. Pestivirus-specific antibodies against p80 protein (also named NS3) common to all Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) and Border Disease Virus (BDV) were found in 45.9% (95% confidence interval [CI95%]: 40.5-51.3%) of the 343 tested chamois (Rupicapra rupicapra). In addition, mouflons (Ovis gmelinii musimon) were shown for the first time to be strongly infected (61.1%; CI95%: 38.6-83.6) by a Pestivirus. These serological ELISA results were confirmed by comparative virus neutralization tests, performed on seven Pestivirus strains by using 15 seropositive samples. The highest antibody titers were directed against 2 BDV strains (Av and 33s strains), rather than BDV-4, a strain responsible for Pyrenean-chamois epizooties. Virus neutralization tests confirm a BDV circulation in wild ungulates in the French South Alps. However, no Pestivirus RNA was detected by reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction in serum and spleen samples from seronegative animals and no virus was isolated from those samples either. Efforts should be made to improve the protocol in order to be able to isolate and characterize the local strain. Finally, the oldness (age) and femaleness (gender) increase the risk of seroconversion in chamois.


pmid: 17926303
title: Reproductive safety of vaccination with Vista 5 L5 SQ near breeding time as determined by the effect on conception rates
abstract: Replacement heifers (N=799; 10 to 13 months of age) were vaccinated with Vista 5 L5 SQ (Intervet; a reconstituted vaccine-bacterin product containing modified-live cultures of infectious bovine rhinotracheitis [IBR] virus, bovine viral diarrhea virus [BVDV; types 1 and 2], parainfluenza-3 virus, and bovine respiratory syncytial virus and inactivated cultures of Leptospira serovars canicola, grippotyphosa, hardjo, icterohaemorrhagiae, and pomona with a proprietary adjuvant) at either 40 plus/minus 5 days (control; n=399) or 3 days (test; n=400) before peak breeding day. By 40 plus/minus 5 days before peak breeding day, heifers in both groups had greater average titers to IBR, BVDV types 1 and 2, and four of the five Leptospira antigens assessed as compared with prevaccination titers on day -90 plus/minus 25 days. Conception rates were not affected by treatment. This study suggests that conception rates will not differ between heifers vaccinated with Vista 5 L5 SQ 3 days before breeding and those vaccinated approximately 40 days before breeding.


pmid: 9352057
title: Validation of the heat treatment step used in the production of diaspirin crosslinked hemoglobin (DCLHb) for viral inactivation--effect of crosslinking
abstract: Two experiments were performed to assess viral inactivation during the crosslinking and heat treatment steps of the DCLHb manufacturing process. Stroma free hemoglobin (SFHb) collected from a large scale manufacturing lot was tested in a 1:680 scaled down system in which the key parameters used in the manufacturing process were replicated. In the first study Porcine Parvovirus (PPV), a non-enveloped virus, was used to assess inactivation, while in the second study Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV), an enveloped virus, was utilized. In both experiments, the SFHb solution was deoxygenated and an aliquot of virus suspension was added. To initiate the crosslinking reaction, a solution of bis (3,5-dibromosalicyl) fumarate (DBBF) in HEPES buffer was added to the test solution. In both experiments the reaction times and the degree of crosslinking were normal. After crosslinking, the reaction mixtures were heated to 74 +/- 1 degrees C over 30 minutes, held at 74 +/- 1 degrees C for 90 minutes, and cooled to less than 10 degrees C over 30 minutes. In each experiment the degree of crosslinking of final product was 100% and yield of hemoglobin recovery was normal. Samples were removed prior to crosslinking, after crosslinking and before, during and after heat treatment for determination of virus titer and evaluation of key process parameters. The results from these experiments were consistent with those obtained from the full scale manufacturing process for the deoxygenation, crosslinking and the heat treatment step during the production of DCLHb. The results of virus assays showed that crosslinking has no effect on viruses and their subsequent inactivation by heat treatment.


pmid: 20032885
title: Synthesis and evaluation of in vitro biological activity of 4-substituted arylpiperazine derivatives of 1,7,8,9-tetrachloro-10,10-dimethoxy-4-azatricyclo[5.2.1.0(2,6)]dec-8-ene-3,5-dione
abstract: A series of twenty arylpiperazine derivatives of 1,7,8,9-tetrachloro-10,10-dimethoxy-4-azatricyclo[5.2.1.0(2,6)]dec-8-ene-3,5-dione have been prepared. These derivatives were tested in vitro with the aim of identifying novel lead compounds active against emergent and re-emergent human and cattle infectious diseases (AIDS, hepatitis B and C, tuberculosis, bovine viral diarrhea). In particular, these compounds were evaluated in vitro against representatives of different virus classes, such as a HIV-1 (Retrovirus), a HBV (Hepadnavirus) and the single-stranded RNA(+) viruses Yellow fever virus (YFV) and Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), both belonging to the Flaviridae. Compounds 2c, 2g and 3d showed a modest activity against CVB-2. The molecular structures of the starting imide 1 and one of propyl-piperazine derivatives, 3b, have been determined by an X-ray crystallography study.


pmid: 16716049
title: A versatile flow cytometry-based immunofluorescence inhibition assay for the detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus-specific antibodies
abstract: A fast, sensitive and reliable flow cytometry-based (FACS = fluorescence activated cell sorting) immunofluorescence inhibition assay (FACS-IFI) for the detection of virus-specific antibodies in sera is described. The method was evaluated using sera from cattle experimentally infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Virus-infected cells, which were fixed and permeabilized, were incubated with diluted sera from immunized or control animals. Monoclonal antibodies (mabs) against different viral proteins were added, and detected with ALEXA488-conjugated goat-antimouse antibodies. The fluorescence signals were detected by flow cytometry and determined as mean channel values. Results were expressed as percent fluorescence inhibition compared to standardized negative sera. The FACS-IFI test with sera from experimentally infected animals was highly sensitive and specific. Comparison of the FACS-IFI results with a commercially available blocking ELISA, an indirect ELISA and the standard serum neutralization test showed a strong correlation. Furthermore, the detection of protein-specific antibodies was possible using the FACS-IFI test.


pmid: 10887671
title: Virological and serological studies on the role of PI-3 virus, BRSV, BVDV and BHV-1 on respiratory infections of cattle. I. The detection of etiological agents by direct immunofluorescence technique
abstract: Nasal cells extracted from nasal swabs obtained from 95 cattle with signs of respiratory disease, out of eleven different herds, were tested for BHV-1, PI-3 virus, BRSV and BVDV using direct immunofluorescence technique. Viral antigen positive samples were detected in seven out of eleven herds examined. Of the 95 individual diseased cattle, 19 were found positive for at least one viral antigen. It was found that especially BHV-1 and PI-3 virus are important causative agents in cattle respiratory disease, both or in combination with other pathogenic agents. Multiple infection in virologically positive herds were observed in six (9.8%) of 61 animals tested. The findings reveal that single or multiple infections of selected viruses may be present in an important range in cattle and that direct immunofluorescence technique as a rapid method, based on the detection of viral antigen in nasal swab samples, is useful to establish the viral aetiology of acute bovine respiratory disease caused by these viruses, particularly in the diagnosis of mixed viral infections.


pmid: 8581858
title: Pathogenesis of intrauterine infections with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: BVDV shares with other Pestiviruses the ability to cross the placenta of pregnant host animals. The effects of fetal infections are complex and depend on a number of factors, e.g., age of the zygote/embryo stage, no infection seems to occur. During the last one third of gestation the infection is terminated by the ontogeny of the fetal immune system. This leaves a window of susceptibility during early stages of fetal development allowing establishment of viral persistence and/or the development of a number of fetopathologic effects. Additionally, fertility problems and abortions are observed. Calves that are born immunotolerant to BVDV and persistently viremic display a wide variety of abnormalities. However, there is an unknown proportion of calves born without any clinical signs indicative of persistent infection. The time of fetal infection during the first stages of pregnancy seems to play a crucial role with respect to the lesions induced. Generally, early infections seem to induce less damage compared with late infections, suggesting an indirect, possibly immune-mediated pathogenesis. Additionally, direct virus-cell interactions may play a role. Few data exist about the influence of differences in viral virulence on fetal pathology. Likewise the role of the viral target cell range is not clear.


pmid: 27997620
title: Molecular and Serological Survey of Selected Viruses in Free-Ranging Wild Ruminants in Iran
abstract: A molecular and serological survey of selected viruses in free-ranging wild ruminants was conducted in 13 different districts in Iran. Samples were collected from 64 small wild ruminants belonging to four different species including 25 Mouflon (Ovis orientalis), 22 wild goat (Capra aegagrus), nine Indian gazelle (Gazella bennettii) and eight Goitered gazelle (Gazella subgutturosa) during the national survey for wildlife diseases in Iran. Serum samples were evaluated using serologic antibody tests for Peste de petits ruminants virus (PPRV), Pestiviruses [Border Disease virus (BVD) and Bovine Viral Diarrhoea virus (BVDV)], Bluetongue virus (BTV), Bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BHV-1), and Parainfluenza type 3 (PI3). Sera were also ELISA tested for Pestivirus antigen. Tissue samples including spleen, liver, lung, tonsils, mesenteric and mediastinal lymph nodes and white blood cells (WBCs) were tested using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for PPRV, Foot and Mouth Disease virus (FMDV), Pestivirus, BTV, Ovine herpesvirus type 2 (OvHV-2) and BHV-1. Serologic tests were positive for antibodies against PPRV (17%), Pestiviruses (2%) and BTV (2%). No antibodies were detected for BHV-1 or PI3, and no Pestivirus antigen was detected. PCR results were positive for PPRV (7.8%), FMDV (11%), BTV (3%), OvHV-2 (31%) and BHV-1 (1.5%). None of the samples were positive for Pestiviruses.


pmid: 26050573
title: Bungowannah virus--a probable new species of pestivirus--what have we found in the last 10 years?
abstract: Bungowannah virus was discovered following an outbreak of stillbirths and sudden death in young pigs. Affected animals consistently showed a myocardopathy with signs of cardiac failure. After virus isolation and PCR investigations were unsuccessful, direct fetal inoculation was undertaken. Nucleic acid purified from serum from infected fetuses was subjected to sequence-independent single-primer amplification and nucleic acid sequencing. Sequences consistent with a pestivirus were obtained. The entire genome was identified but was genetically remote from the recognized pestivirus species. This virus was not recognized by pan-pestivirus reactive monoclonal antibodies but was subsequently detected in cell cultures by immunoperoxidase staining using convalescent sow serum. Experimental infections of sows at different stages of gestation reproduced the myocarditis syndrome. Pre-weaning losses of 70 and 29% were observed following infection at days 35 and 90, respectively. Piglets infected at day 35 were shown to be persistently infected, while chronic infections were observed after fetal infection at day 55. Chronically infected piglets showed growth retardation and were viremic for up to 7 months. Myocarditis was associated with infection in late gestation (day 90). Non-pregnant sheep and cattle have been experimentally infected but with no evidence of disease. Infection of pregnant cattle in early gestation resulted in both maternal and fetal infection, but all infected fetuses mounted an antibody response to the virus. Analysis of the nucleic acid sequence confirmed that Bungowannah has a number of changes not observed in other pestiviruses. Genes encoding some of the structural proteins remain fully functional when inserted into a bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) backbone. Cell culture-based studies have shown that Bungowannah virus will grow in cells extending from humans to bats as well as farm animals.


pmid: 24811746
title: Genetic characterization of a noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus 2b isolated from cattle in China
abstract: In January 2013, several clinical signs of cattle with diarrhea, cough, nasal discharge, and fever were reported in Jilin province, China. One virus named SD1301 was isolated and identified. Complete genome of the virus is 12258nt in length and contains a 5'UTR, one open reading frame encoding a polyprotein of 3,897 amino acids and a 3'UTR. Phylogenetic analysis of 5'UTR, N(pro), E1 and E2 gene demonstrated the virus belonged to BVDV 2b, and genetically related to the BVDV strain Hokudai-Lab/09 from Japan in 2010. This bovine viral diarrhea virus displays a unique genetic signature with 27-nucleotide deletion in the 5'UTR, which is similar to the bovine viral diarrhea virus C413 (AF002227). This was the first confirmed isolation of ncp BVDV2b circulating in bovine herd of China.


pmid: 21309165
title: [Control of bovine viral diarrhea/mucosal disease in the district of Kamenz on a voluntary basis--ways, successes, limitations]
abstract: In 69 dairy and beef herds in the district of Kamenz, Saxony, with a total number of 21,783 and 89.6% of the district's cattle, a voluntary BVDV eradication protocol was implemented from 2000 to 2007. The aim was to achieve eradication as comprehensive as possible and to prepare the herds for the mandatory eradication program. Essential preconditions for the accreditation of a herd as "free of BVD virus" were the antigen test of all cattle and their offspring for 12 months including completeness check and a negative serological random sampling of young cattle. Mean eradication period of infected herds lasted 45.6 months, herd size, and the number of newly purchased cattle were found to have a significant influence. In five infected farms calf losses significantly decreased after termination of the eradication. further examination of the 126 antigen test positive animals from 15 herds resulted in 87 persistently infected (PI) and 15 transiently infected (TI) individuals, 24 animals missed the second test. Furthermore, out of the 87 PI's 30 individuals (34%) had antibodies against BVDV. Eight farms vaccinated their whole herd, seven only the young stock before first breeding, and 54 herds did not vaccinate, respectively. Concluding from this study, the epidemiological particularities of the farms should be taken in account. Testing of all cattle in a minimum of time including, official monitoring of immediate culling of PI's, immediate epidemiological research, and serological monitoring of the eradication process is necessary.


pmid: 3039900
title: Molecular cloning of the bovine viral diarrhea virus genomic RNA
abstract: The genomic RNA from Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVD) was cloned in E. coli. The complete sequence has been obtained and the genomic organization has been deduced. Some of the BVD specific cDNA have been expressed in bacteria, eucaryotic cells and in vitro. We suggest that BVDV belongs to a new family different from Togaviridae and Flaviviridae.


pmid: 34830842
title: The Use of Oncolytic Viruses in the Treatment of Multiple Myeloma
abstract: Multiple myeloma accounts for 1% of all new cancers worldwide. It is the second most common haematological malignancy and has a low five-year survival rate (53.2%). Myeloma remains an incurable disease and is caused by the growth of malignant plasma cells in the bone marrow. Current anti-myeloma therapies (conventional chemotherapies, immunomodulatory drugs i.e., thalidomide and its' analogues, proteasome inhibitors, monoclonal antibodies, and radiotherapy) initially substantially debulk tumour burden, but after a period of remission 'plateau phase' disease invariably relapses due to tumour recrudescence from foci of minimal residual disease (MRD) and accumulating drug resistance. Therefore, there is a compelling clinical need for the development of novel treatment regimens to target MRD and effectively eliminate all remaining tumour cells. This review will discuss the potential use of oncolytic virus (OV) therapies in the treatment of myeloma. Specifically, it will focus on preclinical studies using DNA viruses (adenovirus (Ad), vaccinia virus (VV), myxoma virus (MYXV), and herpes simplex virus (HSV)), RNA viruses (reovirus (reo), coxsackie virus, measles virus (MV) and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), and vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV)), and on four types of viruses (VV, reo, MV-NIS and VSV-IFNβ-NIS) that have been assessed clinically in a small number of myeloma patients.


pmid: 28851755
title: Engaging veterinarians and farmers in eradicating bovine viral diarrhoea: a systematic review of economic impact
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) is a significant drain on efficient and successful cattle production in both dairy and beef systems around the world. Several countries have achieved eradication of this disease, but always through the motivation of stakeholders who accept the benefits of eradication. These include increased cattle welfare and fitness of cattle to withstand other diseases, and decreased costs of production, the latter resulting from both decreased costs spent on managing the disease and decreased losses. This paper provides a systematic review of 31 papers, published between 1991 and 2015, that address the economic impact of BVD. Each paper takes a different approach, in either beef or dairy production or both. However with the breadth of work collated, a stakeholder engaged in BVD eradication should find an economic figure of most relevance to them. The reported economic impact ranges from £0 to £552 per cow per year (£2370 including outliers). This range represents endemic or subclinical disease situations seen in herds with stable BVD virus infection, and epidemic or severe acute situations, most often seen in naïve herds. The outcome of infection is therefore dependent on the immune status of the animal and severity of the strain. The variations in figures for the economic impact of BVD relate to these immune and pathogenicity factors, along with the variety of impacts monitored.


pmid: 28366627
title: Metagenomic assessment of adventitious viruses in commercial bovine sera
abstract: Animal serum is an essential supplement for cell culture media. Contamination of animal serum with adventitious viruses has led to major regulatory action and product recalls. We used metagenomic methods to detect and characterize viral contaminants in 26 bovine serum samples from 12 manufacturers. Across samples, we detected sequences with homology to 20 viruses at depths of up to 50,000 viral reads per million. The viruses detected represented nine viral families plus four taxonomically unassigned viruses and had both RNA genomes and DNA genomes. Sequences ranged from 28% to 96% similar at the amino acid level to viruses in the GenBank database. The number of viruses varied from zero to 11 among samples and from one to 11 among suppliers, with only one product from one supplier being entirely "clean." For one common adventitious virus, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), abundance estimates calculated from metagenomic data (viral reads per million) closely corresponded to Ct values from quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (rtq-PCR), with metagenomics being approximately as sensitive as rtq-PCR. Metagenomics is useful for detecting taxonomically and genetically diverse adventitious viruses in commercial serum products, and it provides sensitive and quantitative information.


pmid: 23251417
title: Two different epidemiological scenarios of border disease in the populations of Pyrenean chamois (Rupicapra p. pyrenaica) after the first disease outbreaks
abstract: Since 2001 several outbreaks of a new disease associated with Border disease virus (BDV) infection have caused important declines in Pyrenean chamois (Rupicapra pyrenaica) populations in the Pyrenees. The goal of this study was to analyze the post-outbreak BDV epidemiology in the first two areas affected by disease with the aim to establish if the infection has become endemic. We also investigated if BDV infected wild and domestic ruminants sharing habitat with chamois. Unexpectedly, we found different epidemiological scenarios in each population. Since the disease outbreaks, some chamois populations recuperated quickly, while others did not recover as expected. In chamois from the first areas, prevalence was high (73.47%) and constant throughout the whole study period and did not differ between chamois born before and after the BDV outbreak; in all, BDV was detected by RT-PCR in six chamois. In the other areas, prevalence was lower (52.79%) and decreased during the study period; as well, prevalence was significantly lower in chamois born after the disease outbreak. No BDV were detected in this population. A comparative virus neutralisation test performed with four BDV strains and one Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) strain showed that all the chamois had BDV-specific antibodies. Pestivirus antibodies were detected in all the rest of analyzed species, with low prevalence values in wild ruminants and moderate values in domestic ruminants. No viruses were detected in these species. These results confirm the hypothesis that outbreaks of BDV infection only affect the Pyrenean chamois, although other wild ruminants can occasionally be infected. In conclusion, two different scenarios have appeared since the first border disease outbreaks in Pyrenean chamois: on the one hand frequent BDV circulation with possible negative impact on population dynamics in some areas and on the other, lack of virus circulation and quick recovery of the chamois population.


pmid: 15626630
title: Polyaniline synthesis and its biosensor application
abstract: In this study, five polyaniline compounds were synthesized using different protonic acids and incorporated into a conductometric biosensor used for bovine viral diarrhea virus detection. The biosensor was developed and evaluated by the authors for bacterial pathogen detection in previous studies. The biosensor consisted of two parts: the immunosensor and the electronic data collection system. Liquid sample moved through the immunosensor surface by capillary action. The specificity of the biosensor was based on the unique binding characteristics of the polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies immobilized on the immunosensor. Polyaniline was used in the biosensor architecture as the transducer due to its electronic and bio-molecular properties. Results showed that the biosensor was sensitive at a concentration of 10(3) cell culture infective dose per milliliter (CCID/ml) of BVDV antigens. The promising results on the BVDV detection demonstrated that the conductometric biosensor was interchangeable for different target molecules of detection. Further modification could be implemented to evaluate the biosensor as a rapid diagnostic device to detect other infectious disease outbreaks in livestock population.


pmid: 20003649
title: Bovine respiratory disease research (1983-2009)
abstract: Bovine respiratory disease (BRD) research has provided significant understanding of the disease over the past 26 years. Modern research tools that have been used include monoclonal antibodies, genomics, polymerase chain reaction, immunohistochemistry (IHC), DNA vaccines and viral vectors coding for immunogens. Emerging/reemerging viruses and new antigenic strains of viruses and bacteria have been identified. Methods of detection and the role for cattle persistently infected bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were identified; viral subunits, cellular components and bacterial products have been characterized. Product advances have included vaccines for bovine respiratory syncytial virus, Mannheimia haemolytica and Pasteurella multocida; the addition of BVDV2 to the existing vaccines and new antibiotics. The role of Mycoplasma spp., particularly Mycoplasma bovis in BRD, has been more extensively studied. Bovine immunology research has provided more specific information on immune responses, T cell subsets and cytokines. The molecular and genetic basis for viral-bacterial synergy in BRD has been described. Attempts have been made to document how prevention of BRD by proper vaccination and management prior to exposure to infectious agents can minimize disease and serve as economic incentives for certified health programs.


pmid: 8785944
title: Serological responses in calves to vaccines against bovine respiratory syncytial, infectious bovine rhinotracheitis, bovine viral diarrhoea and parainfluenza-3 viruses
abstract: The Istituto Superiore di Sanità (ISS), the National Veterinary Services Laboratory in Italy, is in charge of assessing the quality, safety and efficacy of veterinary vaccines before and after licensing. To evaluate the relative potency of several vaccines against bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBRV), bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and parainfluenza-3 virus (PI3V), the serological responses in vaccinated calves were studied. Vaccination with any of the vaccines under study induced specific antibody titres against the different viral antigens. The differences of the mean antibody titres within and among the test group vaccines were statistically significant. The results confirm and support those obtained by other authors in similar studies, suggesting that serological responses in vaccinated calves can be used as a helpful means of assessing the relative potency of vaccines against viral respiratory diseases of cattle. The criteria allowing such an evaluation are discussed.


pmid: 2155769
title: Experimental transmission of bovine viral diseases by insemination with contaminated semen or during embryo transfer
abstract: Three experimental approaches were used to study transmission of blue tongue (BT), infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR) and bovine virus diarrhoea (BVD) viruses. These were insemination with contaminated semen, experimental infection of embryo donor cows, or transfer of embryos experimentally exposed to virus in vitro to normal recipients. Parameters assessed included number and quality of embryos produced, virus detection (isolation and electron microscopy), serology and histopathology. All superovulated sesceptible cows inseminated with semen containing blue tongue virus (BTV) (n = 2) or infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBRV) (n = 2) became infected. One cow inseminated with semen containing BTV produced seven virus-free seven-day-old embryos; the second cow failed to produce any embryos. One of two cows inseminated with semen containing IBRV produced two underdeveloped, virus-free embryos while no embryos were produced by the second cow. One of two cows inseminated with semen containing bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) became infected. Two poorly developed, virus-free seven-day-old embryos were recovered from one of these cows. Superovulated susceptible cows inoculated either intramuscularly with BTV (n = 3) or intranasally with IBR virus (n = 2) became infected. Virus was isolated from some tissues of two BTV-infected cows, neither of which produced embryos. A third BTV-infected cow produced two virus-free embryos collected at necropsy five days after inoculation. One of two cows experimentally infected with IBR virus, produced three embryos but virus was not detected either by electron microscopy (1 embryo) or in cell culture by cytopathic alterations (1 embryo).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)


pmid: 28851755
title: Engaging veterinarians and farmers in eradicating bovine viral diarrhoea: a systematic review of economic impact
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) is a significant drain on efficient and successful cattle production in both dairy and beef systems around the world. Several countries have achieved eradication of this disease, but always through the motivation of stakeholders who accept the benefits of eradication. These include increased cattle welfare and fitness of cattle to withstand other diseases, and decreased costs of production, the latter resulting from both decreased costs spent on managing the disease and decreased losses. This paper provides a systematic review of 31 papers, published between 1991 and 2015, that address the economic impact of BVD. Each paper takes a different approach, in either beef or dairy production or both. However with the breadth of work collated, a stakeholder engaged in BVD eradication should find an economic figure of most relevance to them. The reported economic impact ranges from £0 to £552 per cow per year (£2370 including outliers). This range represents endemic or subclinical disease situations seen in herds with stable BVD virus infection, and epidemic or severe acute situations, most often seen in naïve herds. The outcome of infection is therefore dependent on the immune status of the animal and severity of the strain. The variations in figures for the economic impact of BVD relate to these immune and pathogenicity factors, along with the variety of impacts monitored.


pmid: 28366627
title: Metagenomic assessment of adventitious viruses in commercial bovine sera
abstract: Animal serum is an essential supplement for cell culture media. Contamination of animal serum with adventitious viruses has led to major regulatory action and product recalls. We used metagenomic methods to detect and characterize viral contaminants in 26 bovine serum samples from 12 manufacturers. Across samples, we detected sequences with homology to 20 viruses at depths of up to 50,000 viral reads per million. The viruses detected represented nine viral families plus four taxonomically unassigned viruses and had both RNA genomes and DNA genomes. Sequences ranged from 28% to 96% similar at the amino acid level to viruses in the GenBank database. The number of viruses varied from zero to 11 among samples and from one to 11 among suppliers, with only one product from one supplier being entirely "clean." For one common adventitious virus, bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), abundance estimates calculated from metagenomic data (viral reads per million) closely corresponded to Ct values from quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (rtq-PCR), with metagenomics being approximately as sensitive as rtq-PCR. Metagenomics is useful for detecting taxonomically and genetically diverse adventitious viruses in commercial serum products, and it provides sensitive and quantitative information.


pmid: 23251417
title: Two different epidemiological scenarios of border disease in the populations of Pyrenean chamois (Rupicapra p. pyrenaica) after the first disease outbreaks
abstract: Since 2001 several outbreaks of a new disease associated with Border disease virus (BDV) infection have caused important declines in Pyrenean chamois (Rupicapra pyrenaica) populations in the Pyrenees. The goal of this study was to analyze the post-outbreak BDV epidemiology in the first two areas affected by disease with the aim to establish if the infection has become endemic. We also investigated if BDV infected wild and domestic ruminants sharing habitat with chamois. Unexpectedly, we found different epidemiological scenarios in each population. Since the disease outbreaks, some chamois populations recuperated quickly, while others did not recover as expected. In chamois from the first areas, prevalence was high (73.47%) and constant throughout the whole study period and did not differ between chamois born before and after the BDV outbreak; in all, BDV was detected by RT-PCR in six chamois. In the other areas, prevalence was lower (52.79%) and decreased during the study period; as well, prevalence was significantly lower in chamois born after the disease outbreak. No BDV were detected in this population. A comparative virus neutralisation test performed with four BDV strains and one Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) strain showed that all the chamois had BDV-specific antibodies. Pestivirus antibodies were detected in all the rest of analyzed species, with low prevalence values in wild ruminants and moderate values in domestic ruminants. No viruses were detected in these species. These results confirm the hypothesis that outbreaks of BDV infection only affect the Pyrenean chamois, although other wild ruminants can occasionally be infected. In conclusion, two different scenarios have appeared since the first border disease outbreaks in Pyrenean chamois: on the one hand frequent BDV circulation with possible negative impact on population dynamics in some areas and on the other, lack of virus circulation and quick recovery of the chamois population.


pmid: 15626630
title: Polyaniline synthesis and its biosensor application
abstract: In this study, five polyaniline compounds were synthesized using different protonic acids and incorporated into a conductometric biosensor used for bovine viral diarrhea virus detection. The biosensor was developed and evaluated by the authors for bacterial pathogen detection in previous studies. The biosensor consisted of two parts: the immunosensor and the electronic data collection system. Liquid sample moved through the immunosensor surface by capillary action. The specificity of the biosensor was based on the unique binding characteristics of the polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies immobilized on the immunosensor. Polyaniline was used in the biosensor architecture as the transducer due to its electronic and bio-molecular properties. Results showed that the biosensor was sensitive at a concentration of 10(3) cell culture infective dose per milliliter (CCID/ml) of BVDV antigens. The promising results on the BVDV detection demonstrated that the conductometric biosensor was interchangeable for different target molecules of detection. Further modification could be implemented to evaluate the biosensor as a rapid diagnostic device to detect other infectious disease outbreaks in livestock population.


pmid: 14587376
title: Humoral immune response to infectious agents in aborted bovine fetuses in Argentina
abstract: The purpose of this study was to characterize the exposure of bovine aborted fetuses from beef and dairy herds of the humid pampas of Argentina to different infectious agents by the evaluation of fetal fluid antibodies. Presence of fetal antibodies to bovine viral diarrhea virus genotype 1 (BVDV-1), bovine herpes virus type 1 (BHV-1), Leptospira interrogans, Brucella abortus, and Neospora caninum was determined. Of the 95 fetuses processed, 66 came from 49 beef herds and 29 from 12 dairy herds. The average gestational age of the aborted fetuses was 7.1 months. Antibodies to the mentioned agents were detected in 65 of the 95 fetal fluids (68.4%). In addition, antibodies to more than one infectious agent were detected in 32 fetuses (33.7%), suggesting fetal exposure to multiple antigens during gestation. There were antibodies to BVDV-1, BHV-1, N. caninum and Leptospira interrogans in 43 (45.2%), 29 (30.5%), 26 (27.4%) and 5 (5.2%) specimens, respectively. Antibodies to B. abortus were not detected in any of the fetal fluids. The results of this study provide information on the determination of antibodies in fluids from bovine aborted fetuses exposed to different infectious agents in the region.


pmid: 24029765
title: Complete genome sequences of two bovine viral diarrhea viruses isolated from brain tissues of nonambulatory (downer) cattle
abstract: Here, we report the complete genome sequences of two bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDVs) (strains 11F011 and 12F004) isolated from brain tissues from nonambulatory (downer) cattle. The complete genomes of strains 11F011 and 12F004 contain 12,287 nucleotides (nt) with a single large open reading frame and 12,301 nt with a single large open reading frame, respectively. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that these strains belong to the BVDV-2a and -1b genotypes, respectively.


pmid: 31767099
title: Diagnostics in the context of an eradication program: Results of the German bovine viral diarrhea proficiency trial
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea (BVD), one of the most important infectious diseases in cattle, causes major economic losses and significant impact on animal welfare worldwide. The major source for virus spread is persistently infected, immunotolerant calves and, therefore, their early identification is of utmost importance for disease prevention. Here, a ring trial was initiated to control the performance of diagnostic tests used in German regional laboratories in charge of the diagnostics within the country's BVD control program. A panel of five ear notch and five serum samples was provided for virological analysis. By an antigen ELISA, which was applied 26 times, the status of every sample was correctly identified in any case. In addition, a total of 54 real-time RT-PCR result sets was generated and also in most cases correctly classified. In addition to the virological test panel, a set of six sera and four milk samples was sent to the participating laboratories to be analyzed by serological methods. With serum neutralization tests, an excellent diagnostic sensitivity was achieved. However, one serum and both milk samples - positive for BVDV antibodies - repeatedly tested false negative by some of the used ELISA kits. All negative serum and milk samples were correctly identified by every commercial antibody ELISA. In conclusion, the BVDV proficiency test demonstrated that the used antigen/genome test systems allowed predominantly reliable diagnostics, while for four of the applied nine antibody ELISA kits adjustments are recommended.


pmid: 14963137
title: Uncleaved NS2-3 is required for production of infectious bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Despite increasing characterization of pestivirus-encoded proteins, functions for nonstructural (NS) proteins NS2, NS2-3, NS4B, and NS5A have not yet been reported. Here we investigated the function of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) uncleaved NS2-3. To test whether NS2-3 has a discrete function, the uncleaved protein was specifically abolished in two ways: first by inserting a ubiquitin monomer between NS2 and NS3, and second by placing an internal ribosome entry site between the two proteins (a bicistronic genome). In both cases, complete processing of NS2-3 prevented infectious virion formation without affecting RNA replication. We tested the hypothesis that uncleaved NS2-3 was involved in morphogenesis by creating a bicistronic genome in which NS2-3 was restored in the second cistron. With this genome, both uncleaved NS2-3 expression and particle production returned. We then investigated the minimal regions of the polyprotein that could rescue an NS2-3 defect by developing a trans-complementation assay. We determined that the expression of NS4A in cis with NS2-3 markedly increased its activity, while p7 could be supplied in trans. Based on these data, we propose a model for NS2-3 action in virion morphogenesis.


pmid: 11524161
title: Fluorogenic RT-PCR assay (TaqMan) for detection and classification of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: A single tube fluorogenic RT-PCR-based 'TaqMan' assay was developed for detection and classification of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). TaqMan-PCR was optimized to quantify BVD virus using the ABI PRISM 7700 sequence detection system and dual-labeled fluorogenic probes. Two different gene specific labeled fluorogenic probes for the 5' untranslated region (5' UTR) were used to differentiate between BVD types I and II. Sensitivity of the single tube TaqMan assay was compared with two-tube TaqMan assay and standard RT-PCR using 10-fold dilutions of RNA. Single tube TaqMan assay was 10-100-fold more sensitive than the two-tube TaqMan assay and the standardized single tube RT-PCR. Specificity of the assay was evaluated by testing different BVD virus strains and other bovine viruses. A total of 106 BVD positive and negative pooled or single serum samples, field isolates and reference strains were tested. Quantitation of cRNA from types I and II BVD virus was accomplished by a standard curve plotting cycle threshold values (C(T)) versus copy number. Single tube TaqMan-PCR assay was sensitive, specific and rapid for detection, quantitation and classification of BVD virus.


pmid: 24551175
title: The pestivirus N terminal protease N(pro) redistributes to mitochondria and peroxisomes suggesting new sites for regulation of IRF3 by N(pro.)
abstract: The N-terminal protease of pestiviruses, N(pro) is a unique viral protein, both because it is a distinct autoprotease that cleaves itself from the following polyprotein chain, and also because it binds and inactivates IRF3, a central regulator of interferon production. An important question remains the role of N(pro) in the inhibition of apoptosis. In this study, apoptotic signals induced by staurosporine, interferon, double stranded RNA, sodium arsenate and hydrogen peroxide were inhibited by expression of wild type N(pro), but not by mutant protein N(pro) C112R, which we show is less efficient at promoting degradation of IRF3, and led to the conclusion that N(pro) inhibits the stress-induced intrinsic mitochondrial pathway through inhibition of IRF3-dependent Bax activation. Both expression of N(pro) and infection with Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) prevented Bax redistribution and mitochondrial fragmentation. Given the role played by signaling platforms during IRF3 activation, we have studied the subcellular distribution of N(pro) and we show that, in common with many other viral proteins, N(pro) targets mitochondria to inhibit apoptosis in response to cell stress. N(pro) itself not only relocated to mitochondria but in addition, both N(pro) and IRF3 associated with peroxisomes, with over 85% of N(pro) puncta co-distributing with PMP70, a marker for peroxisomes. In addition, peroxisomes containing N(pro) and IRF3 associated with ubiquitin. IRF3 was degraded, whereas N(pro) accumulated in response to cell stress. These results implicate mitochondria and peroxisomes as new sites for IRF3 regulation by N(pro), and highlight the role of these organelles in the anti-viral pathway.


pmid: 16806503
title: A universal heterologous internal control system for duplex real-time RT-PCR assays used in a detection system for pestiviruses
abstract: A heterologous in vitro transcript based on a specific primer-probe HEX system was generated as a universal internal control (IC) to improve virus-specific real-time reverse-transcriptase PCR (RT-PCR) assays. By using a set of different primers, several PCR fragments of desired sizes of an in vitro transcript of the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) gene were generated, and the fragments were detected using a HEX-labelled probe. For long-term storage of the in vitro transcript a special RNA-safe buffer (RSB) was developed. Freezing and thawing of the IC diluted in RSB did not result in any substantial loss of detectable IC copy numbers. The new IC system was used for the first time in a duplex real-time RT-PCR assay for the detection of pestivirus-derived RNA, in particular from bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Primers and TaqMan probes for the 'panpesti' assay were selected by analysing the consensus sequence of the 5' non-translated region (5' NTR) of more than 600 different pestiviruses. Finally, the optimised primer probe combination showed an analytical sensitivity of less than 10 copies/reaction. In the duplex set-up, the analytical sensitivity of the validated real-time RT-PCR was identical to the sensitivity of the single assay without IC, and the diagnostic sensitivity of the duplex assay was equal or higher if compared to virus isolation.


pmid: 28460753
title: Population-level effects of risk factors for bovine respiratory disease in Australian feedlot cattle
abstract: Results obtained from a nationwide longitudinal study were extended to estimate the population-level effects of selected risk factors on the incidence of bovine respiratory disease (BRD) during the first 50days at risk in medium-sized to large Australian feedlots. Population attributable fractions (PAF) and population attributable risks (PAR) were used to rank selected risk factors in order of importance from the perspective of the Australian feedlot industry within two mutually exclusive categories: 'intervention' risk factors had practical strategies that feedlot managers could implement to avoid exposure of cattle to adverse levels of the risk factor and a precise estimate of the population-level effect while 'others' did not. An alternative method was also used to quantify the expected effects of simultaneously preventing exposure to multiple management-related factors whilst not changing exposure to factors that were more difficult to modify. The most important 'intervention' risk factors were shared pen water (PAF: 0.70, 95% credible interval: 0.45-0.83), breed (PAF: 0.67, 95% credible interval: 0.54-0.77), the animal's prior lifetime history of mixing with cattle from other herds (PAF: 0.53, 95% credible interval: 0.30-0.69), timing of the animal's move to the vicinity of the feedlot (PAF: 0.45, 95% credible interval: 0.17-0.68), the presence of Bovine viral diarrhoea virus 1 (BVDV-1) in the animal's cohort (PAF: 0.30, 95% credible interval: 0.04-0.50), the number of study animals in the animal's group 13days before induction (PAF: 0.30, 95% credible interval: 0.10-0.44) and induction weight (PAF: 0.16, 95% credible interval: 0.09-0.23). Other important risk factors identified and prioritised for further research were feedlot region, season of induction and cohort formation patterns. An estimated 82% of BRD incidence was attributable to management-related risk factors, whereby the lowest risk category of a composite management-related variable comprised animals in the lowest risk category of at least four of the five component variables (shared pen water, mixing, move timing, BVDV-1 in the cohort and the number of animals in the animal's group-13). This indicated that widespread adoption of appropriate interventions including ensuring pen water is not shared between pens, optimising animal mixing before induction, timing of the animal's move to the vicinity of the feedlot, and group size prior to placing animals in feedlot pens, and avoiding BVDV-1 in cohorts could markedly reduce the incidence of BRD in medium-sized to large Australian feedlots.


pmid: 23214380
title: Bovine neonatal pancytopenia in calves in Poland
abstract: Bovine neonatal pancytopenia (BNP), a newly emerged syndrome of discussed etiology in calves, has been diagnosed since 2006. Here we describe first cases of BNP in Poland. Between September 2008 and April 2011, 62 cases of BNP were diagnosed in dairy calves. Bleeding skin lesions were mostly pronounced in summer and early autumn. Severe thrombocytopenia was observed in all sick animals. All calves came from herds vaccinated against BVDV infection with PregSure BVD vaccine (Pfizer). Substitution of colostrum from dams of BNP positive calves with colostrum from dams from herds free of BNP was the only effective measure to avoid new cases in affected herds.


pmid: 19020912
title: Coinfection is an important factor in epidemiological studies: the first serosurvey of the aoudad (Ammotragus lervia)
abstract: Despite being considered an invasive ungulate outside its native range (North Africa), little information exists regarding the role of the aoudad (also called Barbary sheep, Ammotragus lervia) as a pathogen reservoir. Furthermore, in most epidemiological surveys the potential role of coinfections (e.g. a first infection may make the host more immuno-competent or susceptible against a second pathogen) as a risk factor is often neglected. In this study we first performed a serological survey for selected pathogens (Mycobacterium bovis, M. avium subsp. paratuberculosis, Chlamydophila abortus, bovine viral diarrhoea/border disease viruses (BVDV-BDV), Salmonella spp., Brucella melitensis and Toxoplasma gondii) on free (n = 66) and captive (n = 25) aoudad from south-east Spain. Then, by using Akaike's information criterion, we evaluated the importance of coinfection in two statistical models that included the effects of population, age, and sex. Our results show that neither free nor captive aoudad had antibodies against Brucella melitensis, Chlamydophila abortus, or BVDV-BDV. However, compared to other wild ungulates in Spain, aoudads have high prevalence of antibodies against M. bovis (free = 49.5%; captive = 8%), very high prevalence of antibodies against M. avium subsp. paratuberculosis (free = 19.4%; captive = 56%), and intermediate prevalence of antibodies against Salmonella spp. (free = 13.4%; captive = 0%) or T. gondii (free = 1.5%; captive = 24%). Although the additive effects of population and age were included in our set of selected models, coinfection was the most influential factor to detect antibodies response against mycobacterials and salmonella infections. The direction of this influence could be exclusion of disease between tuberculosis and paratuberculosis seroreactor animals, or enhanced susceptibility to disease between tuberculosis and salmonella seroreactor animals. In conclusion, we believe that wildlife managers must pay more attention to the potential risk posed by aoudads as hosts (and probably reservoirs) of paratuberculosis and tuberculosis mycobacterials, while epidemiologists should be more aware of coinfection as an important factor in epidemiological surveys, especially in wildlife populations where multiple infections are common.


pmid: 14769903
title: A conserved basic loop in hepatitis C virus p7 protein is required for amantadine-sensitive ion channel activity in mammalian cells but is dispensable for localization to mitochondria
abstract: We previously identified the function of the hepatitis C virus (HCV) p7 protein as an ion channel in artificial lipid bilayers and demonstrated that this in vitro activity is inhibited by amantadine. Here we show that the ion channel activity of HCV p7 expressed in mammalian cells can substitute for that of influenza virus M2 in a cell-based assay. This was also the case for the p7 from the related virus, bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). Moreover, amantadine was shown to abrogate HCV p7 function in this assay at a concentration that specifically inhibits M2. Mutation of a conserved basic loop located between the two predicted trans-membrane alpha helices rendered HCV p7 non-functional as an ion channel. The intracellular localization of p7 was unaffected by this mutation and was found to overlap significantly with membranes associated with mitochondria. Demonstration of p7 ion channel activity in cellular membranes and its inhibition by amantadine affirm the protein as a target for future anti-viral chemotherapy.


pmid: 12217344
title: Comparable virus inactivation by bovine or vegetable derived Tween 80 during solvent/detergent treatment
abstract: A mixture of Tri-n-butyl phosphate (TNBP) and Polysorbate 80 (Tween 80) is often used for virus inactivation during the manufacture of medicinal products derived from human plasma. This procedure, known as solvent/detergent treatment, is of high effectiveness for inactivation of enveloped viruses. Tween 80 can be manufactured from bovine tallow or from vegetable material. As the bovine-derived Tween 80 is normally used for the solvent/detergent treatment, the question has been raised whether vegetable-derived Tween 80 can be applied as an alternative substance for the solvent/detergent treatment. Comparable inactivation studies were therefore performed using Vesicular Stomatitis Virus (VSV), Pseudorabiesvirus (PRV), Semliki Forest Virus (SFV) and Bovine Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV). In principle, no differences were observed in the effectiveness of the solvent/detergent treatment when bovine or vegetable-derived Tween 80 was used. The comparability in the efficiency of both detergents for virus inactivation was shown to be independent of solvent/detergent concentration, of temperature (16 degrees C and 6 degrees C vs. 27 degrees C and 25 degrees C) and protein concentration (10% and 5% human albumin). In summary, vegetable-derived Tween 80 is of the same effectiveness as bovine-derived Tween 80, when used for virus inactivation by the solvent/detergent treatment.


pmid: 22621944
title: Development and evaluation of a multiplex enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for the detection of antibodies to bovine respiratory diseases on the Meso Scale Discovery platform
abstract: A multiplex enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to detect antibodies to Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), Bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1), Bovine parainfluenza virus 3 (BPV-3), and Bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) was developed on the commercially available Meso Scale Discovery (MSD) platform. The multiplex ELISA used the same antigens (relatively crude lysates of cultured virus) that are used in the current in-house separate ELISAs. Testing a panel of field samples demonstrated the multiplex assay could simultaneously detect the presence of several antibodies in a single assay and that there was good agreement between the multiplex ELISA and the in-house ELISAs. The use of a multiplex ELISA could offer significant benefits for routine serological testing through reduced staff time, reduced reagent cost, and streamlined laboratory operation.


pmid: 15503540
title: [Case report--bilateral anotia in a German Holstein calf]
abstract: In a female black and white coloured German Holstein calf bilateral anotia and impaired vision was observed. This congenital anomaly is very seldomly seen in cattle. The clinical examination revealed no further anomalies. The test on a BVDV infection was negative. No other affected calves could be detected by examining the relatives.


pmid: 27601344
title: Antibody titers to vaccination are not predictive of level of protection against a BVDV type 1b challenge in Bos indicus - Bos taurus steers
abstract: Subclinical illness associated with infection is thought to reduce performance and increase production costs in feedlot cattle, but underlying components remain largely unidentified. Vaccination is frequently used in feedlot settings but producers lack metrics that evaluate the effectiveness of vaccination programs. The goal of this study was to determine if levels of serum neutralizing antibody titers were predictive of levels of vaccine protection in a commercial setting. During this four-year study, Angus-Nellore steers housed in a production feedlot setting were assigned to 1 of 3 vaccine treatments: killed vaccine (kV), modified live virus (MLV) vaccine, or no vaccine (control), and were challenged with a noncytopathic 1b field strain of bovine viral diarrhea virus. Rectal temperature and levels of circulating lymphocytes and platelets were monitored following challenge. While no animals were diagnosed as clinically ill with respiratory disease, indicators of disease (pyrexia, lymphopenia, and thrombocytopenia) were observed. The MLV treatment elicited higher antibody titers to the vaccination than the kV, and calves in the MLV treatment had higher mean titers at challenge. The year that elicited the highest antibody response to the vaccination and the year with the lowest frequency of phenotypic responses to the challenge were not concurrent. The MLV treatment had the highest proportion, 34.68%, of animals that were protected against the challenge regardless of the pre-challenge antibody titer and had the fewest number of lymphopenia cases in response to the challenge. Both vaccine treatments mitigated thrombocytopenia when compared to the control treatment, and the MLV treatment reduced lymphopenia; however, these symptoms were not completely eliminated in vaccinated animals. Pyrexia was present in 40.11% of the animals, but no difference in the frequency of cases between treatments was observed. Pre-challenge vaccination response was not indicative of the level of protection nor was anamnestic antibody response correlated with health status.


pmid: 18605017
title: [Experiences with a BVD-free transhumance in the summer of 2006]
abstract: The aim of this paper was to examine the effect of eliminating persistently infected (PI) animals on BVDV infection during transhumance and to identify possible weak points in the prevention of new infection. An initial blood sample (A) was taken from all the animals until one week before the date of trans-humance (n = 190) and examined for virus by means of real-time RT-PCR or antigen-ELISA and for antibodies by means of ELISA. One PI animal was identified and eliminated. On the day of transhumance (B), serology was performed of the blood samples of all animals that had had a negative or unknown antibody status (n = 93) when blood sample A had been examined. At the end of the transhumance season (C) those animals that had tested seronegative in sample B were re-examined for antibodies (n = 65). The case incidence per animal year amounted to 37.1% up to sample A, 41.8% between sample A and sample B (4 seroconversions). Four cases of seroconversion were diagnosed during the transhumance season, which equalled a case incidence of 17.8% per animal year. A season of transhumance free of PI animals failed to completely prevent BVDV infection, but the new infection rate was significantly diminished. The most possible explanation for new infections are abortions of PI-animals.


pmid: 17881162
title: Epidemiological study of border disease virus infection in Southern chamois (Rupicapra pyrenaica) after an outbreak of disease in the Pyrenees (NE Spain)
abstract: In 2001 and 2002, an outbreak of a previously unreported disease, associated with a border disease virus (BDV), caused high mortality in the Southern chamois (Rupicapra pyrenaica) population in the Alt Pallars-Aran National Hunting Reserve in the Catalan Pyrenees (NE Spain). Between 2002 and 2006, sera and/or tissue samples taken from 116 healthy chamois shot during the hunting season, plus 42 from chamois affected by different diseases, were studied. A blocking enzyme-immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to study pestivirus seroprevalence in 114 healthy hunted and 31 diseased chamois, yielding positive results in 73.7 and 22.6% of the chamois, respectively. Comparative virus neutralization tests (VNT) performed on 42 seropositive samples with 6 pestivirus strains yielded statistically higher titres to BDV Spain 97, followed by BDV chamois, BDV 137/4, BDV Moredun, Bovine Diarrhoea virus-1 (BVDV-1) NADL and BVDV-2 atypical. Virological investigations for pestivirus detection were performed using an antigen ELISA test in 82 healthy and 18 diseased chamois, RT-PCR in 16 healthy and in all diseased chamois, and virus isolation in 14 diseased chamois. No viral antigen was detected in any of the healthy animals. A pestivirus, characterized as BDV by monoclonal antibodies, was detected in the 10 chamois showing clinical signs consistent with BDV infection. Sequence analysis in the 5' untranslated region (5'-UTR) revealed that they were grouped into the BDV-4 genotype. In the remaining chamois, infectious keratoconjunctivitis, pneumonia, trauma and contagious ecthyma were diagnosed. The cause of death was unknown in five chamois. The results suggest that the infection has become endemic in the population and that it could have a significant impact on chamois population dynamics.


pmid: 17078247
title: Seroprevalence of Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis, Neospora caninum, Bovine leukemia virus, and Bovine viral diarrhea virus infection among dairy cattle and herds in Alberta and agroecological risk factors associated with seropositivity
abstract: A province-wide, cross-sectional seroprevalence and agroecological risk factor study of Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP), Neospora caninum (NC), Bovine leukemia virus (BLV), and Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDv) genotypes 1 and 2 (BVDv1 and BVDv2) infection in dairy cattle herds in Alberta was conducted. Among adults, the seroprevalence of MAP, NC, and BLV was 9.1%, 18.5%, and 26.9%, respectively. For MAP, based on a herd test cutpoint of 2 or more seropositive cows, 58.8% of herds were infected. Herd-level seroprevalence for NC and BLV was 98.7% and 86.7%, respectively, based on a herd-test cutpoint of 1 seropositive cow. Among unvaccinated dairy heifers, the seroprevalence for BVDv1 and BVDv2 infection was 28.4% and 8.9%, respectively, while herd-level infection was 53.4% and 19.7%. Seroprevalence for MAP varied moderately by agroecological region, whereas that for NC, BLV, and BVDv1 and BVDv2 did not. For MAP, aridity and soil pH (correlated features of the region) were also important.


pmid: 14979434
title: Effect on hematopoietic tissue of experimental infection of calves with noncytopathic type 2 bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: To investigate the hematologic abnormalities observed with noncytopathic type 2 bovine viral diarrhea virus (ncpBVDV-2), calves 6 to 8 mo old were inoculated with an isolate of either high virulence (HV24515) or low virulence (LV11Q); control animals received the same volume of uninfected cell-culture supernatant. Peripheral blood neutrophil, lymphocyte, and platelet counts decreased in all the virus-inoculated calves but were significantly lower and remained decreased longer in the calves given HV24515. For each isolate, a decrease in the number of mature myeloid cells in the bone marrow coincided with the development of neutropenia, but the depletion persisted significantly longer (4 to 6 d) in the calves given HV24515. In the bone marrow of calves given LV11Q, the number of proliferating myeloid cells increased in proportion to the decrease in the number of mature myeloid cells. In the calves inoculated with HV24515, BVDV antigen was observed in bone marrow cells when the peripheral blood counts were lowest. Megakaryocytes were the predominant cell type exhibiting positive BVDV staining; myeloid cells rarely stained positively. Viral antigen was not observed in the bone marrow of calves given LV11Q. These experiments demonstrated that ncpBVDV-2 isolates of both high and low virulence caused decreased leukocyte and platelet counts, but only the high-virulence HV24515 isolate caused a delay in the production of myeloid proliferating cells. The delay may contribute to the ability of certain ncpBVDV-2 isolates to induce severe disease.


pmid: 14635922
title: Reproductive challenges facing the cattle industry at the beginning of the 21st century
abstract: The aim of this review is to pinpoint the areas that require further research for greatest impact to improve the efficiency of dairy and beef production. Increased knowledge about the principal causes of reduced fertility is essential. Increases in milk yield have been at the expense of reduced fertility in dairy cows and although diet has a major impact, the precise interaction between nutrition and reproduction still needs to be characterized in both beef and dairy cows. Furthermore, during periods of inadequate nutrition or stress, the intensity of oestrus is reduced by inadequate exposure to oestradiol. However, it is still unclear which pheromones are involved at oestrus, how synthesis is controlled and how pheromones are detected in herd-mates. GnRH may be involved in behaviour but the brain centres that translate hormonal messages are unknown. Attempts to overcome poor oestrous detection include measurements of milk progesterone, telemetric pressure detectors and devices that record the extra activity at oestrus. Substitution of heat detection by 'hormone treatment remedies' has met strong consumer resistance in Europe. The creation of larger cattle units and increased movements world-wide render herds more susceptible to infectious agents, such as Neospora, Leptospira, Trypanosoma and Bovine Viral Diarrhoea virus (BVDv), but it is unclear how other clinical conditions, such as lameness or endometritis, also interfere with ovarian function. The future of dominant follicles selected within 14 days after parturition is crucial--normal ovulation, prolonged persistence or atresia. Calving carries the greatest risk in the reproductive life of a cow and yet little work has focused on reducing the frequency of this event. For dairy cows, a greater understanding about induced or extended lactation is required. For beef animals, precise induction of twinning and nutritional adjustments could produce two offspring per pregnancy. At the start of pregnancy, the trophoblast produces interferon to prevent luteolysis, but the immunological implications are unknown and it is not clear how the rest of pregnancy is maintained. Profiles of pregnancy specific protein B (PSPB) have increased understanding of embryonic death. However, 25% of cows in abattoirs are pregnant, even though 30% of involuntary cullings are 'for failing to conceive'. Clearly, this is an area of wastage that requires urgent resolution. It is unknown why undernutrition at the time of insemination or in early pregnancy leads to delayed births, low fetal weights and later adverse health. At the end of pregnancy, the fetus controls the onset of parturition, but very little is known about the biochemical control of cervical dilation and placental separation. On the male side, bulls are selected for optimal freezability of semen; however, there is as yet no reliable predictor for semen fertility. Methods for accurately pre-determining the sex of both semen and embryos will revolutionize the dairy and beef industries.


pmid: 11883891
title: Genetic typing of ruminant pestivirus strains from Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland
abstract: A study was performed to investigate the genotypes and sub-groups of pestiviruses present in ruminants in Ireland. These comprised one ovine and eighteen bovine pestiviruses from Northern Ireland and six bovine pestiviruses from the Republic of Ireland. A 288 base pair (bp) portion of the 5'-non coding region (5'-NCR) from each of 25 pestiviruses collected over a period of 31 years was amplified by reverse-transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and the product directly sequenced. From each pestivirus, nucleotide sequences corresponding to bases 130 to 374 of the 5'-NCR of NADL were aligned and compared with each other and with the corresponding sequences of a number of reference, field or vaccinal strains of BVDV types I and II, border disease virus and classical swine fever virus. All of the 25 sequenced pestiviruses were found to be BVDV type Ia. These were closely related to the constituent viruses of the 2 inactivated vaccines currently licensed for use in Northern Ireland and to recent bovine isolates from England.


pmid: 10568008
title: Congress report on progress in pestivirus virology
abstract: This mini-review highlights new information on various research aspects presented by specialists from all over the world at the 4th Pestivirus meeting held in Giessen (Germany) from March 15-19, 1999. Especial attention is paid towards differences in humeral and cellular immune response of naive and persistently infected calves with BVDV, and towards BVD eradication programmes in the Scandinavian countries. The development of techniques for an early diagnosis of CSF in live pigs and the progress on both sub-unit and MLV marker vaccines against this disease are reported.


pmid: 19060941
title: [New furano- and pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine nucleosides and their 5'-triphosphates: synthesis and biological properties]
abstract: Bicyclic furano[2,3-d]pyrimidine ribonucleosides were synthesized by Pd(0)- and CuI-catalyzed coupling of 5-iodouridine with terminal alkynes. The treatment of the resulting nucleosides with ammonia or methylamine solution in aqueous alcohol resulted in pyrrolo- and N(7)-methylpyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidine nucleosides. 5'-O-Triphosphates of bicyclic nucleosides were obtained by the treatment of the nucleosides with POCl3 in the presence of a "proton sponge." The 5'-O-triphosphates are not substrates for HCV RNA-dependent RNA polymerase, but are effective substrates for HCV RNA helicase/NTPase and did not inhibit ATP hydrolysis. Only 3-(beta-D-ribofuranosyl)-6-decyl-2,3-dihydrofuro-[2,3-d]pyrimidin-2-one showed a moderate anti-HCV activity in the HCV replicon system and efficiently inhibited replication of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) in KCT-cells, other compounds being inactive. None of the compounds were cytotoxic within the tested range of concentrations.


pmid: 16962189
title: An epidemiologic study of late-term abortions in dairy cattle in Denmark, July 2000-August 2003
abstract: Abortion in dairy cows in well-managed dairies is not common but differences have been reported probably due to variation in animal health, nutrition and management, as well as difficulties in observing the aborted material. A 38-month study of 507 large Danish dairy herds revealed 3354 late-term abortions and 224,419 calvings were recorded. During the study period, a total of 3717 submissions were made to the Danish Institute for Food and Veterinary Research (DFVF). A broad spectrum of abortive agents was isolated but none were found to be statistically associated with abortions. The number of abortions in a month on a dairy was significantly (P<0.001) associated with the number of cows in the third trimester but explained only 11% (R(adj)(2)=0.114) of the variability of the reported abortions. A total of 23 herds (4.5%) reported 531 abortions (15.8%). Although a marginally significant (P=0.11) risk of increased abortions was found to exist in bovine viral diarrhea virus- (BVDV) infected herds, it could be at least partially explained by additional calvings in those herds. Temporal correlation between inseminations and abortions was statistically significant (P<0.001) with the highest correlation (r=0.47-0.51) after lagging abortions on insemination by 6-8 months. No indication of spatial clustering was detected for either specific-abortogenic pathogens or high aborting dairies using either Cuzick-Edwards' (P>0.17) or spatial scan tests (P>0.23). Ederer-Myers-Mantel test was applied to 3 years of data on the highest aborting dairies and showed that July had nearly double the expected number of maximum monthly abortions (P<0.001). These findings provide further insight into the reported abortion pattern in Danish dairies and may facilitate planning future control programs.


pmid: 16139899
title: Detection and quantitative pathogenesis study of classical swine fever virus using a real time RT-PCR assay
abstract: A real time reverse transcription (RT) TaqMan PCR assay for the detection of classical swine fever virus (CSFV) previously described for use on a SmartCycler was validated on the Applied Biosystems AB 7700 Sequence Detection System using the Roche MagNA pure instrument for nucleic acid extraction and reaction set up. The primers and probe were specific for the CSFV strains (NSW, Baker and Weybridge) and did not react with other pestiviruses (BDV Tobias, BDV #327, BVDV non-CPE and BVDV C24V). Analysis of blood samples collected from pigs 1-6 and 8 days post-oronasal infection showed that over >10(6) range there was a linear relationship between log10TCID50ml-1 blood and the log10 normalised genetic load measured by quantitative TaqMan assay. The assay was used to assess CSFV shedding from infected pigs by quantitative TaqMan assay of virus genetic loads in tonsil, nasal and rectal swabs. Infection of tonsils was detected as early as 1 day post-inoculation. Shedding of virus detected by nasal and rectal swabs commenced on the third day post-inoculation. Quantitative TaqMan was used to analyse virus genetic load in tissues collected from pigs killed on days 1-3, 5 and 8 post-infection. Virus infection appeared first in tonsil (day 1), then submandibular lymph node, spleen, ileum and mesenteric lymph node (by day 3). Thereafter, virus spread to the visceral organs and finally to the pancreas and brain. Tonsil, nasal and rectal swabs as well as whole blood were found to be suitable samples for the rapid detection of CSFV using the TaqMan assay and automated nucleic acid extraction and reaction set up.


pmid: 23992795
title: A transversal study on antibodies against selected pathogens in dromedary camels in the Canary Islands, Spain
abstract: The Canary Islands contain the most important dromedary camel (Camelus dromedarius) population in the European Union and are the main export point of dromedaries to continental Europe and Latin America. We investigated the presence of antibodies against relevant disease agents in 100 Canarian camel sera. Selected blood samples of the same animals were also tested by PCR. Sera were tested for antibodies against Bluetongue virus (BTV; 0%), Bovine Viral Diarrhoea virus (BVDV; 0%), Camelpox virus (CPV; 8% by serum neutralization, 16% by ELISA), Peste des Petits Ruminants virus (PPRV, 0%), Rift Valley Fever virus (RVFV; 0%) and West Nile Fever virus (WNV; 3%), the bacterial pathogens Anaplasma sp. (3%), Brucella sp. (1%), Coxiella burnetii (19%), Mycobacterium avium paratuberculosis (MAP; 22%), Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTC; 10%) and Rickettsia sp. (83%), and the parasites Toxoplasma gondii (36%) and Neospora caninum (86%). The most remarkable findings were the detection of antibodies against CPV and the high antibody prevalence against C. burnetii, Rickettsia sp., T. gondii and N. caninum. By PCR, we found no C. burnetii, N. caninum and Anaplasma sp. DNA in the tested samples. However, Rickettsia sp. DNA was detected in six antibody positive tested samples. These results should be taken into consideration in order to implement adequate control measures and avoid a potential dissemination of infections to other territories.


pmid: 23886509
title: Case-control study of microbiological etiology associated with calf diarrhea
abstract: Calf diarrhea is a major economic burden for the US cattle industry. A variety of infectious agents are implicated in calf diarrhea and co-infection of multiple pathogens is not uncommon in diarrheic calves. A case-control study was conducted to assess infectious etiologies associated with calf diarrhea in Midwest cattle farms. A total of 199 and 245 fecal samples were obtained from diarrheic and healthy calves, respectively, from 165 cattle farms. Samples were tested by a panel of multiplex PCR assays for 11 enteric pathogens: bovine rotavirus group A (BRV-A), bovine coronavirus (BCoV), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), bovine enterovirus (BEV), bovine norovirus (BNoV), Nebovirus, bovine torovirus (BToV) Salmonella spp. (Salmonella), Escherichia coli (E. coli) K99(+), Clostridium perfringens with β toxin gene and Cryptosporidium parvum (C. parvum). The association between diarrhea and detection of each pathogen was analyzed using a multivariate logistic regression model. More than a half of the fecal samples from the diarrheic calves had multiple pathogens. Statistically, BRV-A, BCoV, BNoV, Nebovirus, Salmonella, E. coli K99(+), and C. parvum were significantly associated with calf diarrhea (p<0.05). Among them, C. parvum and BRV-A were considered to be the most common enteric pathogens for calf diarrhea with high detection frequency (33.7% and 27.1%) and strong odds ratio (173 and 79.9). Unexpectedly BNoV (OR=2.0) and Nebovirus (OR=16.7) were identified with high frequency in diarrheic calves, suggesting these viruses may have a significant contribution to calf diarrhea.


pmid: 21217032
title: Comparison of detection of Bovine virus diarrhea virus antigen in various types of tissue and fluid samples collected from persistently infected cattle
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses are economically important pathogens of cattle. Most infections in susceptible animals are acquired from animals persistently infected with the virus. Surveillance programs rely on skin biopsies of persistently infected (PI) cattle to detect the infection. The purpose of this study was to compare antigen capture enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ACE) testing results using different types of samples from PI animals. The intent was to determine comparative detection rates in types of samples that are frequently submitted to diagnostic laboratories for evaluation of cases of unknown etiology or samples that could be easily collected for Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) screening. Eight types of samples were collected from 40 PI animals. The sample types were ear notches, serum, nasal swabs, conjunctival swabs, oral swabs, rectal swabs, vaginal/preputial swabs, and a tail skin fold biopsy. Each type of sample (n = 8) for each animal (n = 40) was evaluated with a commercial ACE kit. When using ACE, tail-skin fold and nasal swab samples were 100% sensitive compared with results using ear notches. Sensitivity using other samples was as follows: serum and vaginal/preputial swabs, 92%; conjunctival swabs, 64%; rectal swabs, 10%; oral swabs, 8%. Testing of tail skin fold biopsies, nasal swabs, and ear notch samples resulted in reliable results. In contrast, other sample types were unreliable for diagnosis of persistent infection in calves.


pmid: 11483722
title: Genetic analysis of the pestivirus nonstructural coding region: defects in the NS5A unit can be complemented in trans
abstract: The functional analysis of molecular determinants which control the replication of pestiviruses was considerably facilitated by the finding that subgenomic forms of the positive-strand RNA genome of BVDV (bovine viral diarrhea virus) are capable of autonomous replication in transfected host cells. The prototype replicon, BVDV DI9c, consists of the genomic 5' and 3' untranslated regions and a truncated open reading frame (ORF) encoding mainly the nonstructural proteins NS3, NS4A, NS4B, NS5A, and NS5B. To gain insight into which of these proteins are essential for viral replication and whether they act in cis or in trans, we introduced a large spectrum of in-frame mutations into the DI9c ORF. Tests of the mutant RNAs in terms of their replication capacity and their ability to support translation and cleavage of the nonstructural polyprotein, and whether defects could be rescued in trans, yielded the following results. (i) RNA replication was found to be dependent on the expression of each of the DI9c-encoded mature proteins NS3 to NS5B (and the known associated enzymatic activities). In the same context, a finely balanced molar ratio of the diverse proteolytic processing products was indicated to be crucial for the formation of an active catalytic replication complex. (ii) Synthesis of negative-strand intermediate and progeny positive-strand RNA was observed to be strictly coupled with all functional DI9c ORF derivatives. NS3 to NS5B were hence suggested to play a pivotal role even during early steps of the viral replication pathway. (iii) Mutations in the NS3 and NS4B units which generated nonfunctional or less functional RNAs were determined to be cis dominant. Likewise, lethal alterations in the NS4A and NS5B regions were invariably noncomplementable. (iv) In surprising contrast, replication of functional and nonfunctional NS5A mutants could be clearly enhanced and restored, respectively. In summary, our data provide initial insights into the organization of the pestivirus replication machinery.


pmid: 19757565
title: Response to modified live and killed multivalent viral vaccine in regularly vaccinated, fresh dairy cows
abstract: Vaccination programs for viral pathogens in the dairy industry span the full spectrum of possibilities even though few of these have been evaluated in field situations. One such program is the vaccination of fresh cows 30 to 60 days postpartum with modified live viral (MLV) vaccines. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the antibody response to booster vaccinations during this period. The impact of vaccinations on milk production and reproductive performance was also examined. The response of cattle boosted with MLV bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was greatly enhanced compared with the saline controls and the killed vaccine test group. Similar increases were not seen with the MLV infectious bovine rhinotracheitis virus (IBR) and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV). Changes in milk production were not detected. There was a positive effect on the rate of conception with the MLV group even though there was no evidence of the presence of the three viruses in the herd at the time of study. Although this was a single field trial, and thus limited in scope and repeatability, the results indicate that the vaccines used had a positive effect.


pmid: 34561731
title: Are infectious reproductive pathogens of large ruminants a threat to improving food security? An investigation from Cambodia
abstract: In Cambodia, information on common pathogens causing reproductive losses in cattle and buffalo are lacking, despite there being a need to address livestock health to enhance food security. We analysed stored buffalo (n = 29) and cattle (n = 471) serum samples collected in 2016 using commercially available enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kits. Antibodies to Neospora caninum, bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), Leptospira interrogans serovar Hardjo and Brucella abortus were detected in buffalo samples at 79.3% (95% CI 64.6-94.0), 3.4% (95% CI 0-10.0), 0% and 0%, respectively, and in cattle at 4.2% (95% CI 2.4-6.0), 6.4% (95% CI 4.2-8.6), 8.1% (95% CI 5.6-10.6) and 0%, respectively. The high N. caninum seroprevalence in buffalo was associated with increasing age, with buffalo having a 13.1% chance of being seropositive at birth, increasing to 99.4% by age 7 (p = 0.045). This suggests a predominance of horizontal transmission, possibly from exposure to faeces from free-roaming village dogs. Cattle L. interrogans serovar Hardjo seroprevalence was highest in Tbong Khmum province (20.4%) compared to other provinces (p < 0.001), and may be compromising bovine fertility and creating a zoonotic risk for smallholders who may contract leptospirosis from farm work. These high infection rates prompt further research to determine: to what extent these pathogens are linked to the low reproductive efficiency observed in large ruminants in Cambodia, the risk factors to pathogen exposure and appropriate strategies to reduce these risks. Low BVDV and B. abortus exposure is an important observation. Increasing large ruminant livestock trade into the country will require improved biosecurity and disease surveillance to prevent their emergence. An enhanced understanding of the status of infectious reproductive livestock pathogens in Cambodia can assist development projects to make evidence-based strategies to enhance cattle and buffalo health and improve food security.


pmid: 24688168
title: Comparison of levels and duration of detection of antibodies to bovine viral diarrhea virus 1, bovine viral diarrhea virus 2, bovine respiratory syncytial virus, bovine herpesvirus 1, and bovine parainfluenza virus 3 in calves fed maternal colostrum or a colostrum-replacement product
abstract: Colostrum-replacement products are an alternative to provide passive immunity to neonatal calves; however, their ability to provide adequate levels of antibodies recognizing respiratory viruses has not been described. The objective of this study was to compare the serum levels of IgG at 2 d of age and the duration of detection of antibodies to bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1), bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 (BVDV-2), bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV), bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1), and bovine parainfluenza virus 3 (BPIV-3) in calves fed maternal colostrum (MC) or a colostrum replacement (CR) at birth. Forty newborn male Holstein calves were assigned to the CR or the MC group. Group CR (n = 20) received 2 packets of colostrum replacement (100 g of IgG per 470-g packet), while group MC (n = 20) received 3.8 L of maternal colostrum. Blood samples for detection of IgG and virus antibodies were collected from each calf at birth, at 2 and 7 d, and monthly until the calves became seronegative. Calves in the MC group had greater IgG concentrations at 2 d of age. The apparent efficiency of absorption of IgG was greater in the MC group than in the CR group, although the difference was not significant. Calves in the CR group had greater concentrations of BVDV neutralizing antibodies during the first 4 mo of life. The levels of antibodies to BRSV, BHV-1, and BPIV-3 were similar in the 2 groups. The mean time to seronegativity was similar for each virus in the 2 groups; however, greater variation was observed in the antibody levels and in the duration of detection of immunity in the MC group than in the CR group. Thus, the CR product provided calves with more uniform levels and duration of antibodies to common bovine respiratory viruses.


pmid: 30789926
title: Evaluation of the effectiveness of the SurePure Turbulator ultraviolet-C irradiation equipment on inactivation of different enveloped and non-enveloped viruses inoculated in commercially collected liquid animal plasma
abstract: The objective of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of the SurePure Turbulator ultraviolet-C (UV-C, 254 nm wavelength) irradiation equipment on inactivation of different enveloped and non-enveloped viruses in commercially collected liquid animal plasma. Specifically, Pseudorabies virus (PRV), Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV), Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV), Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), Classical swine fever virus (CSFV), Swine influenza virus (SIV) as enveloped viruses and Porcine parvovirus (PPV), Swine vesicular disease virus (SVDV), Porcine circovirus type 2 (PCV-2) and Senecavirus A (SVA) as non-enveloped viruses, were inoculated in bovine or porcine plasma and subjected to different UV-C irradiation doses (0, 750, 1500, 3000, 6000 and 9000 J/L) using an UV-C device developed for opaque liquid working under turbulent flow. The enveloped viruses tested were inactivated at < 3000 J/L of UV-C, being the dose needed to inactivate 4 log TCID50 (4D) of 1612 J/L for PRV,1004 J/L for PRRSV, 1953 J/L for PEDV, 1639 J/L for SIV, 1641 J/L for CSFV and 1943 J/L for BVDV. The non-enveloped viruses tended to have higher 4D values: 2161 J/L for PPV, 3223 J/L for SVA and 3708 J/L for SVDV. Because the initial viral concentration was <4.0 Log for PCV-2, it was not possible to calculate the 4D value for this virus. In conclusion, these results demonstrated that the SurePure Turbulator UV-C treatment system is capable of inactivating significant levels of swine viruses inoculated in commercially collected porcine or bovine plasma. It was concluded that irradiation with UV-C can provide an additional redundant biosafety feature in the manufacturing process of spray-dried animal plasma.


pmid: 22721941
title: Neospora caninum in Estonian dairy herds in relation to herd size, reproduction parameters, bovine virus diarrhoea virus, and bovine herpes virus 1
abstract: Cows infected with the tissue parasite Neospora caninum (Nc) are more likely to abort or give birth to calves with neurological disorders. The known infection routes are transplacentally and by consumption of oocysts shed by the definitive host, the dog. It has been hypothesised, that dormant stages of persistent Nc infection may be reactivated by immunosuppression mechanisms such as pathogenic invasions as bovine herpes virus 1 (BHV1) and bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV). The study was set to give the first prevalence data on Nc from Estonian dairy herds in both animal as well as herd level. In addition, association between herd size and Nc, and association of Nc with abortion incidence (Ab), stillbirth incidence (Sb), insemination index (II), and calving interval (CaI) in the presence of BHV1 and BVDV was studied. Blood samples from 1973 animals from 100 herds were collected in 2006-2008, and 320 bulk tank milk (BTM) samples were collected in 2007. Antibodies against Nc was found in 2.5 ± 0.4% (95% CI) of the animals and at least one positive animal was found in 37.0 ± 4.7% (95% CI) of the herds. In addition, Nc antibodies were detected in 16.3 ± 2.0% (95% CI) of the tested BTM. Large herds (≥ 200 animals) were less likely to have seropositive animals for Nc. Logistic regression models showed that herds with more than one animal seropositive for Nc had significantly higher odds ratio of abortion incidence (OR: 11.92, 1.18-120.18 95% CI, p=0.036) and tendency of having more stillbirths (OR: 5.52, 0.87-35.02 95% CI, p=0.07). On the other hand one Nc seropostive cow in the herd was associated with lower odds ratio (OR: 0.22, 0.05-0.91 95% CI, p=0.04) of higher calving intervals. Estonian prevalence results reflect observations in the region. No evidence was found of the pathogens were affecting fertility variables through interactions but independently BHV1 and Nc had an impact on the abortion.


pmid: 8560779
title: Characterization of the hog cholera virus 5' terminus
abstract: Hog cholera virus (HoCV) 5' terminus of the ALD and GPE(-) strains were analyzed by using rapid amplification of cDNA end method (5'RACE). An additional nine nucleotides were found at the 5' termini of genomic RNA in the ALD and GPE(-) strains of HoCV. These nine nucleotides were also conserved in BVDV and were suggested to form a hairpin structure at the 5' terminus by computer-assisted analysis. It seems possible that the secondary structure and/or the 5' terminus sequence has a significant role in the HoCV virus genome.


pmid: 8903138
title: Experimental reproduction of respiratory disease in calves with non-cell-culture-passaged bovine respiratory syncytial virus
abstract: To reproduce experimentally clinical bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) infections in cattle, we isolated BRSV from a calf in the field that suffered from acute respiratory disease. Cell culture passage of the virus was avoided to prevent any modification of the biological properties of the virus. The isolated BRSV was passaged in specific-pathogen-free (SPF) calves. Lung lavage fluids of these calves, which contained at least 10(3) TCID50/ml BRSV and which were found to be free of other known respiratory pathogens, were collected and pooled for experimental infection. To reproduce a clinical BRSV infection, two groups of six SPF calves were inoculated intranasally with 2 ml of 10(3.9) TCID50/ml BRSV of the obtained virus stock. Another five calves, which were persistently infected with bovine virus diarrhoea virus (BVDV), were given the same inoculum. One group of six calves served as mock-infected controls. Clinical signs were closely monitored from 1 week before until 16 days after inoculation. Reproducible clinical signs consisting of significantly (p < 0.05) increased respiratory rates and elevated body temperatures were recorded but not in all BRSV-inoculated calves. Although clinical signs were induced by experimental infection with non-cell-culture-passaged BRSV, the respiratory signs were not as serious as in the most severe cases in the field.


pmid: 35444647
title: Molnupiravir and Its Antiviral Activity Against COVID-19
abstract: The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) constitutes a major worldwide public health threat and economic burden. The pandemic is still ongoing and the SARS-CoV-2 variants are still emerging constantly, resulting in an urgent demand for new drugs to treat this disease. Molnupiravir, a biological prodrug of NHC (β-D-N(4)-hydroxycytidine), is a novel nucleoside analogue with a broad-spectrum antiviral activity against SARS-CoV, SARS-CoV-2, Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), influenza virus, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), hepatitis C virus (HCV) and Ebola virus (EBOV). Molnupiravir showed potent therapeutic and prophylactic activity against multiple coronaviruses including SARS-CoV-2, SARS-CoV, and MERS-CoV in animal models. In clinical trials, molnupiravir showed beneficial effects for mild to moderate COVID-19 patients with a favorable safety profile. The oral bioavailability and potent antiviral activity of molnupiravir highlight its potential utility as a therapeutic candidate against COVID-19. This review presents the research progress of molnupiravir starting with its discovery and synthesis, broad-spectrum antiviral effects, and antiviral mechanism. In addition, the preclinical studies, antiviral resistance, clinical trials, safety, and drug tolerability of molnupiravir are also summarized and discussed, aiming to expand our knowledge on molnupiravir and better deal with the COVID-19 epidemic.


pmid: 25771121
title: Isoxanthohumol--Biologically active hop flavonoid
abstract: Isoxanthohumol (IXN), apart from xanthohumol (XN) and 8-prenylnaringenin (8PN), is one of the most important prenylflavonoids found in hops. Another natural source of this compound is a shrub Sophora flavescens, used in traditional Chinese medicine. Main dietary source of IXN is beer, and the compound is produced from XN during wort boiling. In the human body, the compound is O-demethylated to 8PN, the strongest known phytoestrogen. This process takes place in the liver and in the intestine, where it is mediated by local microflora. It has been reported in some studies that even though beer contains small amounts of hops and its preparations, these compounds may affect the functioning of the human body. IXN exhibits an antiproliferative activity against human cell lines typical for breast cancer (MCF-7), ovarian cancer (A-2780), prostate cancer (DU145 and PC-3), and colon cancer (HT-29 and SW620) cells. It strongly inhibits the activation of the following carcinogens: 2-amino-3-methylimidazol-[4,5-f]quinoline and aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) via human cytochrome P450 (CYP1A2). It also inhibits the production of prostate specific antigen (PSA). IXN significantly reduces the expression of transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) in the case of invasive breast cancer MDA-MB-231. It interferes with JAK/STAT signaling pathway and inhibits the expression of pro1inflammatory genes in the monoblastic leukemia cell line (MonoMac6). It activates apoptosis in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) and human aortic smooth muscle cells (HASMCs). In addition, IXN shows an antiviral activity towards herpes viruses (HSV1 and HSV2) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV).


pmid: 24788238
title: Use of tissue swabbing as an alternative to tissue dissection and lysis prior to nucleic acid extraction and real-time polymerase chain reaction detection of Bovine viral diarrhea virus and Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus
abstract: The use of swabbing to sample tissue samples, prior to nucleic acid extraction and performance of a real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay, was investigated for the detection of the viral pathogens Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV). The tissue swabbing method involved swabbing recently cut tissues, eluting the swabbed material, and extracting nucleic acid from the eluate prior to PCR amplification. Parallel testing of this method with traditional nucleic acid extraction from tissues, where small pieces of tissue are dissected and digested (typically overnight) in lysis buffer prior to nucleic acid extraction, was carried out for 50 samples for each virus. The results demonstrated that equivalent PCR results were obtained with both methods. It was also shown on a smaller number of samples that equivalent PCR results were also obtained when the lysis step of the swabbing method was reduced to only 2 hr. The ability to remove the overnight step typically associated with processing tissue samples for PCR analysis offers the potential for same-day testing of tissue. Although the current study is preliminary in nature and further validation will be required before adoption for routine use, the results show that tissue swabbing is a promising approach. It offers a convenient, simpler, and less time-consuming alternative to tissue dissection and lysis and has potential advantages for routine laboratory operation and outbreak testing, including easier pooling and sampling of large areas of tissue and carcasses.


pmid: 14599781
title: Aspects of the innate and adaptive immune responses to acute infections with BVDV
abstract: The immune response can be divided into innate and adaptive components that synergise to effect the clearance of pathogens. Recently, it has been realised that these arms of the immune system do not act independently, the magnitude and quality of the adaptive response is dependent on signals derived from the innate response. Here, we review the innate immune responses to bovine viral diarrhoea virus infections of cattle and relate these changes to immunosuppression and the subsequent development of the adaptive immune response.


pmid: 29101849
title: Molecular characterization of the bovine IER3 gene: Down-regulation of IL-8 by blocking NF-κB activity mediated by IER3 overexpression in MDBK cells infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus-1
abstract: The immediate early response 3 (IER3) is a key regulatory factor in the immune response, particularly as related to homeostasis immunomodulation via the nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) signaling pathway. The IER3 gene has been identified in mammals and, more recently, in other higher vertebrates. Nevertheless, relatively little is known about this regulator in bovines. Therefore, this study explored, characterized, and compared the genetic context of bovine IER3 to homologous genes in the human, mouse, and canine chromosomes. In silico analysis identified several regions of interest preserved in phylogenetically distant species. Similar analyses were also conducted for interleukin-8, a cytokine in which several putative cis elements were identified for the inducible transcription factor NF-κB. Subsequent challenge assays against the bovine viral diarrhea virus-1 revealed NF-κB signaling pathway activation just 15min post-infection, a process blocked by the BAY-117085 inhibitor. Similarly, infection strongly increased IER3 expression. Interestingly, IER3 down-regulated interleukin-8 expression, as confirmed by IER3 gene inhibition using small interfering RNA, RT-qPCR, and luciferase assays. In conclusion, this is the first report to present data indicating that bovine IER3 is a strong regulator of immune-marker expression, specifically modulating bovine interleukin-8 activation through the NF-κB/IER3 pathway in response to the bovine viral diarrhea virus.


pmid: 28341394
title: Serum biochemical profile and molecular detection of pathogens in semen of infertile male dromedary camels (Camelus dromedarius)
abstract: Detection of pathogens in the semen of camels has not been completely elucidated. Therefore, the current study aimed to determine the association of some economically important pathogens with infertility in 94 male infertile camels through molecular detection and estimation of selected biochemical parameters in serum of these animals compared with a control non infected fertile animals (n=40). PCR analysis of semen samples of infertile camels indicated that, four potential pathogens namely Mycoplasma spp., Leptospira spp., Brucella melitensis, and Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) were detected in 50 semen samples of infertile camels whereas, 44 semen samples of infertile camels were free of pathogens and all tested semen samples were negative for bovine herpes virus 1, Salmonella spp. and Trypanosoma evansi. Single and mixed infection was detected in 88% and 12% of the infected semen samples, respectively. Mycoplasma spp., Leptospira spp., Brucella and Bovine viral diarrhea virus infection represented 66%, 27.2%, 4.5% and 2.3% of the single infected semen samples. Mycoplasma spp.+Leptospira spp. and Mycoplasma spp.+Brucella spp. were detected in 83.3% and 16.7% of mixed infected semen samples, respectively. Testosterone concentration decreased significantly in infertile infected camels compare to both control and infertile non infected animals that remained comparable. The current findings reported the molecular detection of mixed infection in camel semen for the first time. Mycoplasma spp. is the most widely recognized microorganism in the present study and together with Leptospira spp., Brucella spp. and Bovine viral diarrhea virus, might be associated with infertility in dromedary camels.


pmid: 28166243
title: Development of a GeXP-multiplex PCR assay for the simultaneous detection and differentiation of six cattle viruses
abstract: Foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV), Bluetongue virus (BTV), Vesicular stomatitis Virus (VSV), Bovine viral diarrheal (BVDV), Bovine rotavirus (BRV), and Bovine herpesvirus 1 (IBRV) are common cattle infectious viruses that cause a great economic loss every year in many parts of the world. A rapid and high-throughput GenomeLab Gene Expression Profiler (GeXP) analyzer-based multiplex PCR assay was developed for the simultaneous detection and differentiation of these six cattle viruses. Six pairs of chimeric primers consisting of both the gene-specific primer and a universal primer were designed and used for amplification. Then capillary electrophoresis was used to separate the fluorescent labeled PCR products according to the amplicons size. The specificity of GeXP-multiplex PCR assay was examined with samples of the single template and mixed template of six viruses. The sensitivity was evaluated using the GeXP-multiplex PCR assay on serial 10-fold dilutions of ssRNAs obtained via in vitro transcription. To further evaluate the reliability, 305 clinical samples were tested by the GeXP-multiplex PCR assay. The results showed that the corresponding virus specific fragments of genes were amplified. The detection limit of the GeXP-multiplex PCR assay was 100 copies/μL in a mixed sample of ssRNAs containing target genes of six different cattle viruses, whereas the detection limit for the Gexp-mono PCR assay for a single target gene was 10 copies/μL. In detection of viruses in 305 clinical samples, the results of GeXP were consistent with simplex real-time PCR. Analysis of positive samples by sequencing demonstrated that the GeXP-multiplex PCR assay had no false positive samples of nonspecific amplification. In conclusion, this GeXP-multiplex PCR assay is a high throughput, specific, sensitive, rapid and simple method for the detection and differentiation of six cattle viruses. It is an effective tool that can be applied for the rapid differential diagnosis of clinical samples and for epidemiological investigation.


pmid: 25648277
title: Analysis of a pair of END+ and END- viruses derived from the same bovine viral diarrhea virus stock reveals the amino acid determinants in Npro responsible for inhibition of type I interferon production
abstract: The Exaltation of Newcastle disease virus (END) phenomenon is induced by the inhibition of type I interferon in pestivirus-infected cells in vitro, via proteasomal degradation of cellular interferon regulatory factor (IRF)-3 with the property of the viral autoprotease protein N(pro). Reportedly, the amino acid residues in the zinc-binding TRASH motif of N(pro) determine the difference in characteristics between END-phenomenon-positive (END(+)) and END-phenomenon-negative (END(-)) classical swine fever viruses (CSFVs). However, the basic mechanism underlying this function in bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) has not been elucidated from the genomic differences between END(+) and END(-) viruses using reverse genetics till date. In the present study, comparison of complete genome sequences of a pair of END(+) and END(-) viruses isolated from the same virus stock revealed that there were only four amino acid substitutions (D136G, I2623V, D3148G and D3502Y) between two viruses. Based on these differences, viruses with and without mutations at these positions were generated using reverse genetics. The END assay, measurements of induced type I interferon and IRF-3 detection in cells infected with these viruses revealed that the aspartic acid at position 136 in the zinc-binding TRASH motif of N(pro) was required to inhibit the production of type I interferon via the degradation of cellular IRF-3, consistently with CSFV.


pmid: 20598386
title: Seroepidemiology of bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV1) infection among Estonian dairy herds and risk factors for the spread within herds
abstract: The objectives of this study were to reassess the herd level and within-herd prevalence of bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV1) infection in Estonian dairy cattle, estimate the sensitivity and specificity of the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for bulk tank milk (BTM) testing and determine the risk factors related to high prevalence of the infection in herds. To estimate the herd prevalence, BTM samples from each of the 1,205 herds that sell milk to dairy companies were analysed for BHV1 antibodies. One hundred and three herds with known BHV1 infection status were selected to estimate within-herd prevalence and to calculate the sensitivity and specificity of BTM ELISA. In these herds serum samples were collected from cows and youngstock, together with BTM samples. A commercial blocking ELISA test was used to analyse samples for antibodies against BHV1. A questionnaire was completed to collect herd data. The sensitivity and specificity of the BTM ELISA were 76.5% and 97.2%, respectively, and the true herd prevalence of BHV1 was calculated to be 22.0%. The herd prevalence increased significantly with herd size, being 3.4% in the smallest category (less than 20 cows) and 85.7% in herds of size over 400. The mean within-herd prevalence was 37.8% (range 1-100, median 31.5). The mean within-herd prevalence increased with herd size. Data from 59 infected herds was used to determine the risk factors associated with high within-herd prevalence (>50%) of BHV1, using logistic regression analysis. As, in some infected herds, the youngstock were uninfected, risk factors for the presence of BHV1 among youngstock from 6 months until calving were analysed. The results indicate the importance of iatrogenic spread of the virus, since the overall within-herd prevalence was higher in those herds in which a veterinarian was an employee of the farm and an inseminator worked only for the particular farm. The presence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in a herd was associated with a higher prevalence of BHV1.


pmid: 17459829
title: Comparison of five diagnostic methods for detecting bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in calves
abstract: Five diagnostic techniques performed on skin biopsies (shoulder region) and/or serum were compared for detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus infection in 224 calves 0-3 months of age, 23 calves older than 3 months but younger than 7 months, and 11 cattle older than 7 months. The diagnostic methods used were immunohistochemistry (IHC), 2 commercial antigen ELISAs, 1 commercial antibody ELISA, and real-time RT-PCR. Results of 249 out of 258 skin and serum samples were identical and correlated within the 3 antigen detection methods and the real-time RT-PCR used. Twenty-six of these 249 samples were BVDV-positive with all antigen detection methods and the real-time RT-PCR. Nine out of 258 samples yielding discordant results were additionally examined by RT-PCR, RT-PCR Reamplification (ReA), and antigen ELISA I on serum and by immunohistochemistry on formalin fixed and paraffin-embedded skin biopsies. Virus isolation and genotyping was performed as well on these discordant samples. In 3 cases, transiently infected animals were identified. Two samples positive by real-time RT-PCR were interpreted as false positive and were ascribed to cross-contamination. The antigen ELISA II failed to detect 2 BVDV-positive calves due to the presence of maternal antibodies; the cause of 2 false-positive cases in this ELISA remained undetermined. Only persistently infected animals were identified in skin samples by IHC or antigen ELISA I. The 3 antigen detection methods and the real-time RT-PCR used in parallel had a high correlation rate (96.5%) and similar sensitivity and specificity values.


pmid: 15643858
title: Glyco- and peptidomimetics from three-component Joullié-Ugi coupling show selective antiviral activity
abstract: Chlorination-elimination chemistry coupled with three-component Joullié-Ugi reaction and facile deprotection allowed efficient access to an array of polyhydroxylated pyrrolidines through parallel synthesis that may be considered to be a library of imino (aza) sugars (glycomimetics) and/or dihydroxyprolyl peptides (peptidomimetics). The utility of generating such a library was illustrated by screening against 15 different targets that revealed potent and selective inhibition of the Gaucher's disease glycosyltransferase enzyme glucosylceramide synthase and of primary pathogen model for human hepatitis C virus (HCV) and bovine diarrhoeal virus (BVDV). An observed selectivity for this HCV model over hepatitis B virus and remarkably low toxicity suggest a novel mode of action.


pmid: 32374844
title: Evolutionary selection of pestivirus variants with altered or no microRNA dependency
abstract: Host microRNA (miRNA) dependency is a hallmark of the human pathogen hepatitis C virus (HCV) and was also described for the related pestiviruses, which are important livestock pathogens. The liver-specific miR-122 binds within the HCV 5' untranslated region (UTR), whereas the broadly expressed let-7 and miR-17 families bind two sites (S1 and S2, respectively) in the pestiviral 3' UTR. Here, we dissected the mechanism of miRNA dependency of the pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Argonaute 2 (AGO2) and miR-17 binding were essential for viral replication, whereas let-7 binding was mainly required for full translational efficiency. Furthermore, using seed site randomized genomes and evolutionary selection experiments, we found that tropism could be redirected to different miRNAs. AGO cross-linking and immunoprecipitation (CLIP) experiments and miRNA antagonism demonstrated that these alternative variants bound and depended on the corresponding miRNAs. Interestingly, we also identified miRNA-independent variants that were obtained through acquisition of compensatory mutations near the genomic 3' terminus. Rescue experiments demonstrated that miRNA binding and 3' mutagenesis contribute to replication through mutually exclusive mechanisms. Altogether, our findings suggest that pestiviruses, although capable of miRNA-independent replication, took advantage of miRNAs as essential host factors, suggesting a favorable path during evolutionary adaptation.


pmid: 32371330
title: Herd-level factors associated with detection of calves persistently infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in Irish cattle herds with negative herd status (NHS) during 2017
abstract: A compulsory national BVD eradication programme commenced in Ireland in 2013. Since then considerable progress has been made, with the animal-level prevalence of calves born persistently infected (PI) falling from 0.67 % in 2013 to 0.06 % in 2018. The herd-level prevalence fell from 11.3 % in 2013 to 1.1 % in 2018. In the Irish programme, herds in which all animals have a known negative status and which have not contained any PI animals for 12 months or more are assigned a negative herd status (NHS). While considerable progress towards eradication has been made, PI calves have been identified in a small proportion of herds that had previously been assigned NHS. Given this context, a case-control study was conducted to investigate potential risk factors associated with loss of NHS in 2017. 546 herds which had NHS on 1 January 2017 and lost that status during 2017 (case herds) were matched with 2191 herds (control herds) that retained their NHS status throughout 2017. Previous history of BVD infection, herd size, herd expansion, the purchase of cattle including potential Trojan cattle and the density of BVD infection within 10 km of the herd emerged as significant factors in a multivariable logistic regression model. This work adds to the evidence base in support of the BVD eradication programme, particularly establishing why BVD re-emerged in herds which had been free of BVD for at least the previous 12 months prior to the identification of a BVD positive calf. This information will be especially important in the context of identifying herds which may be more likely to contain BVD positive animals once the programme moves to herd-based serology status for trading purposes in the post-eradication phase.


pmid: 17346808
title: A multiplex nested RT-PCR for the detection and differentiation of wild-type viruses from C-strain vaccine of classical swine fever virus
abstract: A multiplex nested RT-PCR (RT-nPCR) was developed for the detection and differentiation of classical swine fever virus (CSFV). A fragment of 447 or 343 bp was amplified from the genomic RNA of C-strain or virulent Shimen strain, respectively, and two fragments of 447 and 343 bp were simultaneously amplified from the mixed samples of C-strain and Shimen. When detecting several wild-type isolates representative of different subgroups (1.1, 2.1, 2.2, and 2.3) circulating in Mainland China and samples from pigs experimentally infected with Shimen strain, the RT-nPCR resulted in an amplification pattern similar to Shimen. No amplification was achieved for uninfected cells, or cells infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and other viruses of porcine origin. The RT-nPCR was able to detect as little as 0.04 pg of CSFV RNA. The restrictive fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) demonstrated unique patterns of wild-type viruses and C-strain. Among the 133 field samples, 42 were tested to contain wild-type viruses and 18 showing presence of C-strain. The RT-nPCR can be used to detect and differentiate pigs infected with wild-type CSFV from those vaccinated with C-strain vaccine, thus minimizing the risk of culling vaccinates during outbreaks.


pmid: 12435688
title: Antiviral activities and cellular toxicities of modified 2',3'-dideoxy-2',3'-didehydrocytidine analogues
abstract: The antiviral efficacies and cytotoxicities of 2',3'- and 4'-substituted 2',3'-didehydro-2',3'-dideoxycytidine analogs were evaluated. All compounds were tested (i) against a wild-type human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) isolate (strain xxBRU) and lamivudine-resistant HIV-1 isolates, (ii) for their abilities to inhibit hepatitis B virus (HBV) production in the inducible HepAD38 cell line, and (iii) for their abilities to inhibit bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) production in acutely infected Madin-Darby bovine kidney cells. Some compounds demonstrated potent antiviral activities against the wild-type HIV-1 strain (range of 90% effective concentrations [EC(90)s], 0.14 to 5.2 micro M), but marked increases in EC(90)s were noted when the compounds were tested against the lamivudine-resistant HIV-1 strain (range of EC(90)s, 53 to >100 micro M). The beta-L-enantiomers of both classes of compounds were more potent than the corresponding beta-D-enantiomers. None of the compounds showed antiviral activity in the assay that determined their abilities to inhibit BVDV, while two compounds inhibited HBV production in HepAD38 cells (EC(90), 0.25 micro M). The compounds were essentially noncytotoxic in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells and HepG2 cells. No effect on mitochondrial DNA levels was observed after a 7-day incubation with the nucleoside analogs at 10 micro M. These studies demonstrate that (i) modification of the sugar ring of cytosine nucleoside analogs with a 4'-thia instead of an oxygen results in compounds with the ability to potently inhibit wild-type HIV-1 but with reduced potency against lamivudine-resistant virus and (ii) the antiviral activity of beta-D-2',3'-didehydro-2',3'-dideoxy-5-fluorocytidine against wild-type HIV-1 (EC(90), 0.08 micro M) and lamivudine-resistant HIV-1 (EC(90) = 0.15 micro M) is markedly reduced by introduction of a 3'-fluorine in the sugar (EC(90)s of compound 2a, 37.5 and 494 micro M, respectively).


pmid: 34699017
title: First molecular evidence of border disease virus in wild boars in Turkey
abstract: Molecular studies on viral diseases in wildlife are limited in Turkey. Pestiviruses infect domestic animals such as pig, cattle, sheep, goats and many other wild ungulates. Cross-species transmission of pestiviruses between wildlife and domestic livestock is a subject of recent concern where wild ungulates are in close contact with domestic ruminants. The International Committee on Virus Taxonomy (ICTV) has named the genus Pestivirus, which belongs to the Flaviviridae family, using the format Pestivirus A, Pestivirus B, Pestivirus C, and so on. Pestivirus A-D replaces Bovine viral diarrhea virus-1 (BVDV-1), Bovine viral diarrhea virus-2 (BVDV-2), Classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and Border disease virus (BDV) respectively. During the 2013-2014 hunting season, a total of 40 samples were collected from wild boars (Sus scrofa ferus) in the area of Western Mediterranean Turkey. In the samples, nucleic acids were investigated for pestivirus, Aujeszky's disease virus, Borna disease virus, coronavirus, mastadenovirus and rotavirus. RT-PCR was performed using primary sets to detect specific partial gene region specific to each virus. Sequence analysis was performed on a positive sample. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the positive sample, TR/Burdur/13/Boar3, belonged to BDV genotype 1 (Pestivirus D). The first molecular findings of BDV in wild boars in Turkey are reported in this study. This study highlights the importance of further research into diseases that might be transmitted from wild boars to ruminants in Turkey.


pmid: 26158858
title: Ligand-responsive RNA mechanical switches
abstract: Ligand-responsive RNA mechanical switches represent a new class of simple switching modules that adopt well-defined ligand-free and bound conformational states, distinguishing them from metabolite-sensing riboswitches. Initially discovered in the internal ribosome entry site (IRES) of hepatitis C virus (HCV), these RNA switch motifs were found in the genome of diverse other viruses. Although large variations are seen in sequence and local secondary structure of the switches, their function in viral translation initiation that requires selective ligand recognition is conserved. We recently determined the crystal structure of an RNA switch from Seneca Valley virus (SVV) which is able to functionally replace the switch of HCV. The switches from both viruses recognize identical cognate ligands despite their sequence dissimilarity. Here, we describe the discovery of 7 new switches in addition to the previously established 5 examples. We highlight structural and functional features unique to this class of ligand-responsive RNA mechanical switches and discuss implications for therapeutic development and the construction of RNA nanostructures.


pmid: 24189547
title: Pore-forming activity of pestivirus p7 in a minimal model system supports genus-specific viroporin function
abstract: Viroporins are small integral membrane proteins functional in viral assembly and egress by promoting permeabilization. Blocking of viroporin function therefore constitutes a target for antiviral development. Classical swine fever virus (CSFV) protein p7 has been recently regarded as a class II viroporin. Here, we sought to establish the determinants of the CSFV p7 permeabilizing activity in a minimal model system. Assessment of an overlapping peptide library mapped the porating domain to the C-terminal hydrophobic stretch (residues 39-67). Pore-opening dependence on pH or sensitivity to channel blockers observed for the full protein required the inclusion of a preceding polar sequence (residues 33-38). Effects of lipid composition and structural data further support that the resulting peptide (residues 33-67), may comprise a bona fide surrogate to assay p7 activity in model membranes. Our observations imply that CSFV p7 relies on genus-specific structures-mechanisms to perform its viroporin function.


pmid: 11480613
title: The effect of infection with bovine viral diarrhea virus on the fertility of Swiss dairy cattle
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus is a major cattle pathogen with a worldwide distribution. Animals may be infected with BVD virus transiently or persistently. Transient infection leads to protective immunity. Persistent infection is unique because it is associated with an immunotolerance that is specific to the infecting strain of BVD virus. Persistent infection results from viral invasion of fetuses between the second and fourth month of development. Such animals are of prime importance in the epidemiology of BVD because they shed large amounts of virus, and thus serve as a constant source of infection for non-immune animals. Infection of pregnant animals during the first two months of gestation may result in an increased rate of return to estrus. Animals infected in the period of five months to birth may abort or give birth to calves with malformations. The effects of BVD virus on fertility and gestation are well documented from experimental infection. However, much less is known of the extent of losses under field conditions. The main reason for this may be the multitude of other causes of increased return rates and gestation failures. In addition, the incidence of infection with BVD virus may vary over time and depends on management practices. In this study, we investigated the impact of BVD virus on gestation failures under field conditions in a large cattle-breeding area of Switzerland, where no specific measures to control BVD are in effect. Our approach consisted of relating seroconversions to BVD virus with the rate of return to estrus, abortion, and birth of calves with apparent malformations. These parameters of fertility were compared to those of animals immune to BVDV infection due to previous exposure to the virus and animals without seroconversion. Our data show that infection with BVD virus during the first 45 days of gestation did not influence the rate of return to estrus. By contrast, we observed a statistically significant increase in the abortion rate in mid-term gestation (Days 46 to 210) while no such effect was observed in the later stages of gestation. No clinically manifest malformations were observed in the offspring of animals that had seroconverted to BVD virus. In our study population the prevalence of BVDV antibody positive cattle varied only slightly between 78% and 80% over the period of observation. Our data showed that 7% (CI: 2.4-14%) of fetal deaths may be attributable to infection with BVD virus.


pmid: 32864895
title: An outbreak of Neospora caninum abortion in a dairy herd from the State of Georgia, United States
abstract: An outbreak of 92 abortions out of 1,700 pregnant cows (5.41%) in a period of 3 weeks (19 May to 05 June 2019) occurred in a Georgia Dairy, USA, in cattle that were between 3 and 7 months of gestation. Two sets of samples (aborted fetuses' organs, placental tissues, aborted cows blood) were submitted for laboratory investigations at the Tifton Veterinary Diagnostic and Investigational Laboratory, College of Veterinary Medicine, University of Georgia (TVDIL, Tifton, GA, USA). An abortion panel testing for the major abortion-causing agents [e.g. Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV), Infectious Bovine Rhinotracheitis Virus/ Bovine Herpes Virus-I (IBR/ BHV-I), Brucella spp., Leptospira spp.] was conducted on several of the samples. On the first set of samples, microbial cultures, serology and PCR tests for the common abortifacient agents revealed the presence of Neospora caninum (N. caninum) DNA, which was positive by PCR on the placenta and fetal tissues. The second set of diagnostic investigations also identified two out of three submitted freshly aborted fetuses to be positive for N. caninum by PCR and immunohistochemistry. Moreover, all three dams were also sero-positive for N. caninum. The entire herd was being fed on grass silage harvested from a pasture where feral pigs were hunted previously and carcasses were left behind. As a consequence of this action a large population of wild coyotes were attracted to these carcasses, and likely contaminated the pasture with potential N. caninum-infected feces. After the abortion outbreak was resolved, it was recommended that the farmers should avoid disposal of cadavers of hunted animals in the wild, as it could attract carnivorous and omnivorous animals that may potentially spread the disease to the cattle and other wildlife.


pmid: 31926433
title: Molecular and functional characterization of ovis aries IFN-epsilon
abstract: Interferon-epsilon (IFN-ε) is a type I IFN playing an essential role in innate and adaptive immunity against viral infection. Ovis aries IFN-ε (OvIFN-ε), consisting of 582 bp and which encodes a protein of 193 amino acids containing a signal peptide of 21 amino acids, was cloned and characterized. OvIFN-ε shares 51.6∼ 86.5% similarity to other species of IFN-ε, and evolves from the IFN-ε branch but not the other types of IFN. Additionally, OvIFN-ε gene is well conserved during evolution, and is highly transcribed in the liver, lung, brain, skin, ovary and uterus. Recombinant protein of OvIFN-ε was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified with nickel chelated column, which exhibited broad antiviral activity in vitro, sensitivity of trypsin, and stability of pH and temperature to some extent. Furthermore, OvIFN-ε could induce the transcription of ISG15, Mx1 and OAS in a time-dependent manner, as well as inhibit the VSV and BVDV replication in Ovis aries peripheral blood lymphocyte cells and MDBK cells. This study revealed OvIFN-ε has the typical characterization of type I IFNs and exerts antiviral activity against VSV and BVDV, and induces the expression of ISGs, which not only enriches the understanding of IFN-ε, but also facilitates further research on the antiviral defense responses of Ovis aries.


pmid: 14556794
title: Synthesis and biological evaluation of benzo[d]isothiazole, benzothiazole and thiazole Schiff bases
abstract: Three new series of benzo[d]isothiazole, benzothiazole and thiazole Schiff bases were synthesized and tested in vitro with the aim of identifying novel lead compounds active against emergent and re-emergent human and cattle infectious diseases (AIDS, hepatitis B and C, tuberculosis, bovine viral diarrhoea) or against drug-resistant cancers (leukaemia, carcinoma, melanoma, MDR tumors) for which no definitive cure or efficacious vaccine is available at present. In particular, these compounds were evaluated in vitro against representatives of different virus classes, such as a HIV-1 (Retrovirus), a HBV (Hepadnavirus) and the single-stranded RNA(+) viruses Yellow fever virus (YFV) and Bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV), both belonging to Flaviviridae. Title compounds were also tested against representatives of Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria (Staphylococcus aureus, Salmonella spp.), various atypic mycobacterial strains (Mycobacterium fortuitum and Mycobacterium smegmatis), yeast (Candida albicans) and mould (Aspergillus fumigatus). None of the compounds showed antiviral or antimicrobial activity. The benzo[d]isothiazole compounds showed a marked cytotoxicity (CC(50)=4-9 microM) against the human CD4(+) lymphocytes (MT-4) that were used to support HIV-1 growth. For this reason, the most cytotoxic compounds of this series were evaluated for their antiproliferative activity against a panel of human cell lines derived from haematological and solid tumors. The results highlighted that all the benzo[d]isothiazole derivatives inhibited the growth of leukaemia cell lines, whereas only one of the above mentioned compounds (1e) showed antiproliferative activity against two solid tumor-derived cell lines.


pmid: 29558524
title: Survival of viral pathogens in animal feed ingredients under transboundary shipping models
abstract: The goal of this study was to evaluate survival of important viral pathogens of livestock in animal feed ingredients imported daily into the United States under simulated transboundary conditions. Eleven viruses were selected based on global significance and impact to the livestock industry, including Foot and Mouth Disease Virus (FMDV), Classical Swine Fever Virus (CSFV), African Swine Fever Virus (ASFV), Influenza A Virus of Swine (IAV-S), Pseudorabies virus (PRV), Nipah Virus (NiV), Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus (PRRSV), Swine Vesicular Disease Virus (SVDV), Vesicular Stomatitis Virus (VSV), Porcine Circovirus Type 2 (PCV2) and Vesicular Exanthema of Swine Virus (VESV). Surrogate viruses with similar genetic and physical properties were used for 6 viruses. Surrogates belonged to the same virus families as target pathogens, and included Senecavirus A (SVA) for FMDV, Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) for CSFV, Bovine Herpesvirus Type 1 (BHV-1) for PRV, Canine Distemper Virus (CDV) for NiV, Porcine Sapelovirus (PSV) for SVDV and Feline Calicivirus (FCV) for VESV. For the remaining target viruses, actual pathogens were used. Virus survival was evaluated using Trans-Pacific or Trans-Atlantic transboundary models involving representative feed ingredients, transport times and environmental conditions, with samples tested by PCR, VI and/or swine bioassay. SVA (representing FMDV), FCV (representing VESV), BHV-1 (representing PRV), PRRSV, PSV (representing SVDV), ASFV and PCV2 maintained infectivity during transport, while BVDV (representing CSFV), VSV, CDV (representing NiV) and IAV-S did not. Notably, more viruses survived in conventional soybean meal, lysine hydrochloride, choline chloride, vitamin D and pork sausage casings. These results support published data on transboundary risk of PEDV in feed, demonstrate survival of certain viruses in specific feed ingredients ("high-risk combinations") under conditions simulating transport between continents and provide further evidence that contaminated feed ingredients may represent a risk for transport of pathogens at domestic and global levels.


pmid: 14741155
title: Maternally derived humoral immunity to bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) 1a, BVDV1b, BVDV2, bovine herpesvirus-1, parainfluenza-3 virus bovine respiratory syncytial virus, Mannheimia haemolytica and Pasteurella multocida in beef calves, antibody decline by half-life studies and effect on response to vaccination
abstract: The passive immunity transferred to calves from their dams was investigated in a beef herd to determine half-life of antibody, estimated time to seronegative status and effect on immunization. One hundred two beef calves in a commercial ranch under standard management conditions were utilized. Samples were collected at branding (day 0). This was the first possible date to collect samples postcalving. This was approximately 2 months postcalving, and days 95 and 116. The calves were divided into two groups: vaccinates (51) and nonvaccinates (51). The calves were vaccinated with a commercial inactivated viral vaccine containing bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)1a, BVDV2, bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV-1), parainfluenza-3 virus (PI-3V), and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) on days 0 and 95. Half of the vaccinated and unvaccinated calves also received one dose of an experimental Mannheimia haemolytica and Pasteurella multocida vaccine at day 95. Serums were tested for neutralizing antibody titers to BVDV1a, BVDV1b, BVDV2, BHV-1, PI-3V, and BRSV. Antibodies were detected by ELISA to M. haemolytica whole cell, M. haemolytica leukotoxin, and P. multocida outer membrane protein (OMP). The mean half-life of viral antibodies in nonvaccinated calves to each virus was: BVDV1a, 23.1 days (d); BVDV1b, 22.8 d; BVDV2, 22.9 d; BHV-1, 21.2 d; PI-3V, 30.3 d; and BRSV, 35.9 d. The mean half-life of viral antibodies was greater for vaccinates than for nonvaccinates for all viruses except BRSV. The calculated mean time to seronegative status for nonvaccinates based on titers at day 0 was: BVDV1a, 192.2 d; BVDV1b, 179.1 d; BVDV2, 157.8 d; BHV-1, 122.9 d; PI-3V, 190.6 d; and BRSV, 186.7 d. There was an active immune response after vaccination with two doses to all the viruses, except BRSV. Mean antibody titers of vaccinates at day 116 were statistically higher than nonvaccinates for all viruses except BRSV. However on an individual calf basis there were few seroconversions (four-fold rise or greater to BVDV1a, BVDV1b, BVDV2, PI-3V, or BRSV; or two-fold rise for BHV-1) in the presence of viral antibodies. The predicted time of seronegative status for a group of calves for vaccination programs may not be appropriate as there may be a range of titers for all calves at day 0. In this study the range for BVDV1a was 16-16,384; BVDV1b, 8-8192; BVDV2, 0-8192; BHV-1, 0-935; PI-3V, 8-2048; and BRSV, 8-4096. Using the half-life of 23 d for BVDV1a, the time thereafter for seronegative status would be 46 and 299 d compared to the calculated date of 192.2 d using the mean of estimated time to seronegative status for all the calves. There was an active humoral response in the vaccinated calves to M. haemolytica and P. multocida. Cowherd humoral immunity based on serum antibodies should be monitored as it may relate to transfer of maternal antibodies to calves. Exceptionally high levels of viral antibodies transferred to calves could interfere with the antibody response to vaccination.


pmid: 33930623
title: Retrospective study of factors associated with bovine infectious abortion and perinatal mortality
abstract: Abortion and perinatal mortality, leading causes of economic loss in cattle industry, are the consequence of both non-infectious and a wide range of infectious causes. However, the relative contribution of pathogens to bovine abortion and perinatal mortality is poorly documented, since available studies involved only a limited number of pathogens. Therefore, the objectives of the present monitoring study were to determine the prevalence of infectious agents associated with bovine abortion and perinatal mortality, and to identify differences in production type, gestation length, parity and seasonality by using mixed effect models (logistic regression). A pre-established sampling protocol based on the collection of the aborted fetus/calf and a corresponding maternal blood sample, involving diagnostic testing for 10 pathogens, was performed. At least one potential causal agent of the abortion or perinatal mortality was detected in 39 % of cases. In these diagnosed cases, Neospora caninum was the most detected pathogen, followed by Trueperella pyogenes, BVDv, Escherichia coli, and Aspergillus fumigatus. Neospora caninum [odds ratio (OR): 0.4; 95 % confidence interval (CI): 0.3-0.7] and Aspergillus fumigatus (OR: 0.1; 95 % CI: 0.1-0.3) were detected less in late versus early gestation. Aspergillus fumigatus was less common in dairy in comparison to beef abortion cases (OR: 0.2; 95 % CI: 0.1-0.6). Winter was associated with a lower positivity for Neospora caninum and BVDv in comparison to warmer seasons. Despite extensive diagnostic testing, an etiological diagnosis was not reached in 61 % of cases, highlighting the need for even more extensive (non-)infectious disease testing or more accurate tests.


pmid: 31069378
title: Characterization and comparison of cell-mediated immune responses following ex vivo stimulation with viral and bacterial respiratory pathogens in stressed and unstressed beef calves1
abstract: The goal of this study was to compare the cell-mediated immune responses of highly commingled, sale-barn origin calves (STR; n = 10) to those of single source calves that had been weaned for 60 d (UNS; n = 10). Peripheral blood mononuclear cells and neutrophils (PMNs) were isolated from jugular venous blood of each calf. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were stimulated with Concanavalin A (ConA), BVDV-1, BVDV-2, BHV-1, Mannheimia haemolytica, and Pasteurella multocida and evaluated for clonal proliferation and secretion of IL-8 into cell culture supernatants. The native functional capacities of PMNs were evaluated in response to stimulation with heat-killed Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus. Complete blood counts and serum biochemical profiles were performed for each animal at the time of sample collection. Compared with STR calves, UNS calves had greater lymphocyte proliferative responses following stimulation BVDV1 (P = 0.041), BVDV2 (P = 0.002), BHV-1 (P = 0.001), M. haemolytica (P = 0.016), and P. multocida (P = 0.049). In addition, PMNs isolated from UNS calves had a greater ability to phagocytose E. coli (P = 0.001) and S. aureus (P = 0.003) when compared with STR calves. Serum nonesterified fatty acids were higher in STR calves (P < 0.001). Serum β-hydroxybutyrate was lower in STR calves (P < 0.003). These data suggest that immunologic and physiologic differences exist between STR and UNS calves. Although the underlying mechanisms for these differences are not clear, it is possible that combinations of energy imbalances, stress-induced immunosuppression, and general immune naiveté may predispose STR calves to an increased risk of morbidity and mortality due to bovine respiratory disease.


pmid: 18045201
title: Synthesis and anti-picornaviridae in vitro activity of a new class of helicase inhibitors the N,N'-bis[4-(1H(2H)-benzotriazol-1(2)-yl)phenyl] alkyldicarboxamides
abstract: A series N,N'-bis[4-(1H(2H)-benzotriazol-1(2)-yl)phenyl]alkyldicarboxamides (3a-f and 5a-j) were prepared starting from their already known (1a-d) and (4a-c) or new (4d) amine parents. Because of the antiviral activity of several N-[4-(1H(2H)-benzotriazol-1(2)-yl)phenyl]alkylcarboxamides previously reported, title compounds were evaluated in vitro for cytotoxicity and antiviral activity against viruses representative of Picornaviridae, [i.e. Enterovirus Coxsackie B2 (CVB-2) and Polio (Sb-1)] and of two of the three genera of the Flaviviridae [Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) and Yellow Fever Virus (YFV)]. Furthermore, because of the in silico activity against the RNA-dependent RNA-helicase of Polio 1 previously reported, title compounds were evaluated against the 3D model of the Sb-1 helicase and against the 2D model of the CVB-2 helicase. As a reference we used the antiviral and in silico activities of an imidazo counterpart of the title compounds, N,N'-bis[4-(2-benzimidazolyl)phenyl]alkyldicarboxamides (III) that other authors reported to be able to inhibit the corresponding enzyme of Hepatitis C Virus (HCV). In cell-based antiviral assays, N,N'-bis[4-(1H-benzotriazol-1-yl)phenyl]alkyldicarboxamides (3a-f) resulted completely inactive whereas the bis-5,6-dimethyl-benzotriazol-2-yl derivatives (5d-f) exhibited good activity against the Enteroviruses, (EC(50)s ranged between 7 and 11 microM against CVB-2 and 19-52 against Sb-1). Interestingly, bis-5,6-dichloro-benzotriazol-2-yl derivatives (5h-j) showed very selective activity against CVB-2 (EC(50)s = 4-11 microM) whereas they resulted completely inactive against all the other viruses screened. In general, all title compounds showed a good cytotoxicity profile in MT-4 cells. Molecular modeling investigations showed that active compounds may interact with the binding site of the Sb-1 helicase and that their free binding energy values are in agreement with their EC(50)s values.


pmid: 25156945
title: A survey on biosecurity and management practices in selected Belgian cattle farms
abstract: The shift from cure towards prevention in veterinary medicine involves the implementation of biosecurity, which includes all measures preventing pathogens from entering a herd and reducing the spread of pathogens within a herd. In Belgium no studies have considered the implementation of biosecurity measures in the daily management of cattle farms. Therefore the aim of the study was to map the current application of biosecurity measures in Belgian cattle farms in the prevention of disease transmission within and between farms. Between March 2011 and April 2013 the data were collected as part of a larger cross-sectional study, conducted to identify risk factors for reinfection with BVDV in cattle herds assumed free from BVDV. Questionnaire data from 33 dairy farms, 16 beef farms and 25 mixed (dairy and beef cattle) farms were analyzed using a combination of a linear scoring system, a categorical principal component analysis and a two-step cluster analysis to differentiate these farms based on their biosecurity levels and visit frequencies. Further enhancement of preventive measures considering external and internal biosecurity was still possible for each farm, as none of the farms obtained an overall high biosecurity level. Three groups of cattle farms were differentiated with a biosecurity level varying from low to high-medium, of which the group with the lowest biosecurity level mainly consisted of mixed farms. Animal-to-animal contacts with cattle from other herds were frequently possible as only 12% of the farmers purchasing cattle quarantined purchased animals at least three weeks and contacts over fences on pasture were possible in 70% of the herds. Basic biosecurity measures such as farm-specific protective clothing and boots were present in the majority of the farms, but they were insufficiently or incorrectly used. Cattle farms were very often visited by professional visitors of which the herd veterinarian, the AI technician and the cattle salesman most frequently entered the farm. It can be concluded that few biosecurity measures were undertaken by Belgian cattle farmers, thereby exposing themselves to the risk of disease transmission within and between farms. Especially in regions with a high cattle density, small distances to neighbouring farms and high frequencies of professional visits, a farm-specific preventive strategy should be developed, thereby using the facilities often already present on the farm.


pmid: 25378351
title: Differentiation of classical swine fever virus infection from CP7_E2alf marker vaccination by a multiplex microsphere immunoassay
abstract: Classical swine fever (CSF) is a highly contagious viral disease of pigs that has a tremendous socioeconomic impact. Vaccines are available for disease control. However, most industrialized countries are implementing stamping-out strategies to eliminate the disease and avoid trade restrictions. These restrictions can be avoided through the use of marker vaccines such as CP7_E2alf. Marker vaccines have to be accompanied by reliable and robust discriminatory assays. In this context, a multiplex microsphere immunoassay for serological differentiation of infected from vaccinated animals (DIVA) was developed to distinguish CSF virus (CSFV)-infected animals from CP7_E2alf-vaccinated animals. To this end, three viral proteins, namely, CSFV E2, CSFV E(rns), and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) E2, were produced in insect cells using a baculovirus expression system; they were used as antigens in a microsphere immunoassay, which was further evaluated by testing a large panel of pig sera and compared to a well-characterized commercial CSFV E2 antibody enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) and a test version of an improved CSFV E(rns) antibody ELISA. Under a cutoff median fluorescence intensity value of 5,522, the multiplex microsphere immunoassay had a sensitivity of 98.5% and a specificity of 98.9% for the detection of antibodies against CSFV E2. The microsphere immunoassay and the CSFV E(rns) ELISA gave the same results for 155 out of 187 samples (82.8%) for the presence of CSFV E(rns) antibodies. This novel multiplex immunoassay is a valuable tool for measuring and differentiating immune responses to vaccination and/or infection in animals.


pmid: 23541784
title: Direct RT-PCR from serum enables fast and cost-effective phylogenetic analysis of bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Studies of the molecular epidemiology of viral diseases are dependent on the analysis of large numbers of samples from infected individuals, and the assembly of relevant sequence databases are a prerequisite to investigate chains of infection. As part of research in support of the Scottish BVDV eradication campaign, we have established a direct RT-PCR method for the high throughput amplification and analysis of the informative 5'-untranslated region of the BVDV genome. Heat-treatment followed by a one-step RT-PCR, performed in 96-well plates, produced sufficient material for sequence analysis from 0.5 μl of serum or plasma. Of 93 samples assayed, only five failed to give full sequence data for the region amplified and these were subsequently successfully analysed in single tube format reactions. This approach improved the speed of analysis, reduced costs, operator time and the potential for contamination, and may allow analysis of samples for which volumes are too low for conventional RNA isolation. It also has the potential for wider application in both human and animal disease research in which high throughput and low cost would increase the size of datasets that can be obtained.


pmid: 21768605
title: Virus distribution and role of thymic macrophages during experimental infection with noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1
abstract: Thymic depletion, presence of viral antigen, and changes in distribution and cytokine production of thymic macrophages were investigated in calves experimentally infected with a noncytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus type (BVDV) 1 strain. Ten clinically healthy colostrum-deprived calves were used. Eight calves were inoculated with the virus and two were used as uninfected controls. Calves were sedated and euthanized in batches between 3 and 14 days postinoculation. At necropsy, thymus samples were collected for structural, immunohistochemical, and ultrastructural study and TUNEL (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling). From 6 days postinoculation, the thymic cortex was multifocally depleted with increased frequency of pyknosis and karyorrhexis, suggestive of apoptosis and confirmed by the TUNEL technique. Although the onset of lymphoid depletion was coincident with the detection of viral antigen by immunohistochemistry, the number of infected lymphocytes was very low through the experiment. There was an increase in number of macrophages in cortex and medulla, accompanied by ultrastructural changes indicative of phagocyte activation, and a decrease in cells expressing tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and IL-1α. These results suggest that the increase in number of these cells could be related to phagocytosis of cell debris and apoptotic lymphocytes. Furthermore, the results imply that, in contrast to the situation with classical swine fever virus, the lymphocyte apoptosis resulting from bovine viral diarrhea virus infection is not mediated by TNF-α or interleukin-1 alpha (IL-1α) production by virus-infected macrophages. This is the first study that describes this decrease in the number of thymic cells expressing TNF-α and IL-1α in cattle experimentally infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1.


pmid: 17719098
title: Numerical taxonomy of the genus Pestivirus based on palindromic nucleotide substitutions in the 5' untranslated region
abstract: The palindromic nucleotide substitutions (PNS) at the three variable loci (V1, V2 and V3) in the 5' untranslated region (UTR) of Pestivirus RNA have been considered for taxonomical segregation of species, through the evaluation of 430 genomic sequences. On the basis of qualitative and quantitative secondary structure characteristics, six species have been identified: Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1), Bovine viral diarrhea virus 2 (BVDV-2), Classical swine fever virus (CSFV), Border disease virus (BDV), the tentative species Giraffe and a new proposed taxon named Pronghorn. The first step was qualitative and consisted in the characterization of the different positions of the three stems and loops in the 5' UTR sequences of all the strains under consideration belonging to the genus. Secondary structure sequences showing divergent base-pair combinations have been aligned for comparison. Palindromic positions have been characterized according to changes in nucleotide base-pairs identifying low-variable positions (LVP) including base-pairs present in less than 80% of the genus. The second step was quantitative, allowing the identification of genomic groups by clustering the base-pair combinations according to LVP. Relatedness among types was evaluated to identify homogeneous groups. Cross comparisons between types within the genus have been evaluated by computing the divergence percentage thus clarifying borderline and multirelated sequences.


pmid: 15145494
title: Attenuation of a virulent type 2 bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The purpose of this study was to produce an attenuated bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) type 2 strain as a tool for identifying potential virulence markers in the BVDV2 genome. The attenuation of the virulent strain, BVDV2-24515, was accomplished by in vivo and in vitro passage. The strain was initially used to infect an elk (Cervus elaphus) [J. Wildl. Dis. 35 (1999) 671], re-isolated at 7 days post-inoculation from serum, and then subsequently passaged 56 times in cell culture. Two groups of calves were inoculated intranasally with either BVDV2-24515 or the putative attenuated virus, designated BVDV2-LATT. Calves inoculated with BVDV2-24515 had cumulative clinical scores which ranged from 6 to 53. Clinical signs in these calves consisted of anorexia, depression, dehydration, diarrhea (+/-bloody), and pneumonia. Several calves developed leukocytopenia, primarily a neutrocytopenia, and presented lesions of enteritis or pneumonia at necropsy. In contrast, cattle inoculated with BVDV2-LATT had cumulative clinical scores which ranged from 0 to 2. This was not significantly different from that of controls which received no virus (range: 0-1). Calves inoculated with BVDV2-LATT produced high neutralizing antibody titers against BVDV2. Thus, in addition to its potential use as a tool for identifying virulence markers, the attenuated virus is also worthy of further study as a candidate virus for inclusion in a modified-live vaccine.


pmid: 10403036
title: Removal of viruses from human intravenous immune globulin by 35 nm nanofiltration
abstract: Viral safety is an important prerequisite for clinical immunoglobulin preparations. A common manufacturing practice is to utilize several virus removal/inactivation process steps to ensure the safety of human intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg). In this regard, we examined the use of Planova 35 nm filters to reduce potential loads of both non-enveloped and enveloped viruses prior to end-stage solvent detergent treatment. The nanofiltration process was validated for removal of a variety of enveloped and non-enveloped viruses ranging in size from 70 nm to 18 nm including: Sindbis virus, Simian Virus 40 (SV40), Bovine Viral Diarrhoea virus (BVDV), Feline Calicivirus, Encephalomyocarditis virus (EMC), Hepatitis A virus (HAV), Bovine Parvovirus (BPV) and Porcine Parvovirus (PPV). The filtration procedure was carried out by first spiking a 7% solution of IVIg with < 10(8) virus. The spiked IVIg solution was then filtered through a 75 nm Planova filter followed by two Planova 35 nm filters in series (75/35/35). The 75 nm prefilter is incorporated into this process to increase the capacity of the 35 nm viral removal filters. As a result of the inclusion of the 75 nm pre-filtration step it was possible to assess the removal of virus by the 35 nm filters independent of possible aggregation of the initial viral spiking material. Samples were collected at each step and immediately titred by viral plaque assay. A process control sample of the spiked load solution was held at the same conditions for the duration of the filtration process and then titred to determine the extent to which antibody neutralization may have contributed to overall viral reduction. Control assays of spiked IVIg were performed to establish the degree of toxicity of the IVIg solution to the indicator cell lines and the extent to which the IVIg interfered with plaque formation in the assay system. This combined data was used to establish assay sensitivity for the calculation of log removal by the filtration process. It was noted that toxicity/interference effects could have a significant effect upon apparent log reductions, and these effects could vary greatly, even within viruses of the same family. The results of these studies indicate that 35 nm filtration is very effective for removing substantial quantities of both non-enveloped and enveloped viruses from IVIg. Complete clearance (to the limits of detection of the assay) was obtained for all viruses larger than 35 nm. Interestingly, viruses reported to have mean diameters of less than 35 nm (EMC and HAV) were at least partially removed by the filtration (4.3 and > 4.7 logs removal, respectively). Even small viruses such as PPV were to some extent removed from the IVIg solution by the filters (2.6 logs removal). Reduction of BPV would not be assessed due to extensive neutralization and interference with plaque formation by the IVIg. Sindbis and SV40 also were subject to neutralization and assay interference due to the IVIg, though to a lesser extent. We conclude from these studies that the 35 nm mean pore size is functionally efficient in removal of smaller size viruses from spiked IVIg concentrates.


pmid: 35092641
title: Virus viability in spiked swine bone marrow tissue during above-ground burial method and under in vitro conditions
abstract: The emergence of high consequence animal diseases usually requires managing significant mortality. A desirable aspect of any carcass management method is the ability to contain and inactivate the target pathogen. The above-ground burial (AGB) technique was recently developed and proposed as an alternative carcass management method. Here, we investigate the tenacity of swinepox virus (SwPV), as a surrogate model for African swine fever virus (ASFV) in swine carcasses during the AGB process. For this, SwPV was inoculated intrafemorally in 90 adult swine carcasses, which were subsequently disposed under AGB conditions. Bone marrow samples were recovered periodically throughout 12 months and virus viability was assessed by virus isolation (VI), whereas the presence of SwPV DNA was evaluated by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). Additionally, an in vitro study assessed the inactivation rate of SwPV, Senecavirus A (SVA), and bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV). Viral suspensions were mixed with bone marrow material and maintained at 21-23°C for 30 days. Virus viability was assessed by VI and viral titration. In the field study, SwPV remained viable only in 11 (55%) bone marrow samples collected on day 7; only viral DNA (and not infectivity) was detected afterwards. SwPV inactivation was estimated to have occurred by day 11. The in vitro testing revealed a variable tenacity of the studied viruses. The viability period was estimated in 28, 80, and 118 days, respectively, for BVDV, SwPV, and SVA. Overall, these findings indicate that the AGB technique was effective in quickly inactivating SwPV. Additionally, the SwPV inactivation rate is comparable to ASFV under field studies and poses a potential model for preliminary ASFV inactivation studies with reduced biosecurity requirements. Moreover, this study contributes to understanding the inactivation kinetics of viruses under specific conditions, which is critical when designing and applying countermeasures in case of biosecurity breaches in sites managing animal mortality.


pmid: 17150659
title: Synthesis of 2'- or 3'-O-heteroaryl substituted nucleic acid derivatives and their biological properties
abstract: The successful preparation of 3'-O-heteroaryl substituted thymidine derivatives were developed by the reaction of 5'-O-(tert-butyldimethylsilyl)thymidine with heteroaromatic halides in the presence of sodium hydride. In a similar manner, 2' or 3'-O-heteroaryl substituted uridine derivatives were obtained by the use of 5'-O-(tert-butyldimethylsilyl)uridine. All the arylations proceeded selectively at the site of the hydroxyl group and reactions of heteroaromatic halides with the nucleobase residues were not observed. Desilylation of the nucleic acid derivatives synthesized afforded 2'- or 3'-O-heteroaryl substituted thymidine or uridine derivatives in good yields. The anti-BVDV assay of the synthesized 2'- or 3'-O-heteroarylsubstituted thymidine and uridine derivatives were studied.


pmid: 23932098
title: Herd-level factors associated with the presence of bovine viral diarrhoea virus in herds participating in the voluntary phase of the Irish national eradication programme
abstract: A risk factor study was conducted to identify variables associated with initial positive or inconclusive results for bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) in ear punch samples collected from calves between 1st January and 15th July 2012 (the study period) as part of the voluntary phase of the Irish national BVD eradication programme based on testing of ear tag tissue samples from calves born in participating herds. Univariable analysis indicated significant associations with the following factors: herd type; the number of cows in the herd; the number of calves born in the study period; the number of calves tested in the study period; the number of cattle purchased in 2011, between 2009 and 2011 and between 2007 and 2011; the number of tested calves whose dams had been purchased within 9 months of their calving date; and the percentage of calf mortality within 28 days of birth. The percentage of the cows in each herd that was homebred, location (province) the number of separate land parcels used by each herd, the presence of an associated sheep enterprise and the purchase of cattle through marts were not found to be significant. An initial logistic regression model was developed to model the probability of a herd having one or more BVD virus-positive or inconclusive calves. When vaccination status was initially excluded, province, log of the numbers of cows in the herd, the number of cows purchased between 2009 and 2011, the number of tested calves whose dams had been purchased within 9 months of their calving date and calf mortality were significant. When vaccination status was included, using a subset of the data based on farmers responding to a survey on vaccination status, it was retained as a significant variable along with the same variables already listed, showing a significant 2-way interaction with the log of the number of cows. There was not a significant association between an initial positive or inconclusive result and the length of time for which herds had been vaccinating. The study provides a series of key communication messages relating to both the delivery of, and benefits from, the national eradication programme.


pmid: 11705647
title: A Swiss case-control study to assess Neospora caninum-associated bovine abortions by PCR, histopathology and serology
abstract: Neospora caninum is one of the most frequent infectious organisms causing abortion in cattle worldwide. The present case-control study was designed to assess the importance of bovine neosporosis for causing abortion in Swiss cattle and to identify selected risk factors. Infection was primarily diagnosed by a N. caninum-specific PCR and serology, complemented with histopathology and immunohistochemistry. A total of 113 case and 113 corresponding control-farms were studied for 1.5 year. During this time period, 242 abortions were reported and referred for bacteriological, virological, parasitological and pathohistological examinations. N. caninum was detected by PCR in the brains of 21% of all aborted fetuses. Microscopic lesions indicative for cerebral protozoa infection were detected in 84% of PCR-positive fetal brains. Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was demonstrated in 7% of the cases, and bacterial infections were detected in 4% of the abortions. One or more N. caninum-abortions occurred in 20% of the herds (41 case-farms and 3 control-farms). Serological examination of aborting mother cows revealed a significantly higher percentage of N. caninum-seropositive animals (44%) in comparison to the prevalence in a randomly selected population (12%). However, in eight cases (4% of all investigated abortions) seronegative cows aborted N. caninum PCR-positive fetuses, and in 50 cases the fetus remained negative although the respective mother cow was N. caninum-seropositive. Repetitive serological investigations (at a 3-12 months interval) of 3551 cows from case- and control-farms showed a decrease of the overall N. caninum-seroprevalence from 17 to 12%. Ninety out of 3008 seronegative animals were converted to N. caninum-seropositivity. Conversely, 212 out of 543 initially seropositive animals became seronegative for their second serum sample. The obtained data underlined the importance of N. caninum as a causative agent for abortion in Swiss cattle. Furthermore, PCR was confirmed to be a valuable diagnostic tool for the primary diagnosis of N. caninum in aborted fetuses. On the other hand, the value of serology appears to be hampered by the temporal instability of N. caninum antibody concentrations in adult cattle, including especially seronegativity of some individual animals. Thus, seronegativity in a mother cow or heifer does not exclude N. caninum-associated abortions.


pmid: 16248011
title: Synthesis of 5-aza-7-deazaguanine nucleoside derivatives as potential anti-flavivirus agents
abstract: Coupling suitable sugars (D- or L-ribofuranose, 2' or 3-deoxysugar, branched sugars) with 2-aminoimidazo[1,2-a]-s-triazin-4-one was carried out using the different reaction conditions: 1) condensation in the presence of sodium hydride; or 2) condensation using Vorbrüggen's methods. The 5-aza- 7-deazaguanine nucleoside analogues obtained were evaluated in cell culture experiments for the inhibition of the replication of a number of RNA viruses, including BVDV, YFV, and WNV.


pmid: 16901692
title: Substituted 5-benzyl-2-phenyl-5H-imidazo[4,5-c]pyridines: a new class of pestivirus inhibitors
abstract: A novel class of inhibitors of pestiviruses (5-substituted 2-phenyl-5H-imidazo[4,5-c]pyridines) is described. Modification of the substituent in position 5 resulted in analogues with high activity (EC(50)<100nM) and selectivity (SI>1000) against the pestivirus BVDV (bovine viral diarrhea virus).


pmid: 26430037
title: Complete Genome Sequence of Noncytopathic Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus 1 Contaminating a High-Passage RK-13 Cell Line
abstract: A high-passage rabbit kidney RK-13 cell line (HP-RK-13[KY], originally derived from the ATCC CCL-37 cell line) used in certain laboratories worldwide is contaminated with noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (ncpBVDV). On complete genome sequence analysis, the virus strain was found to belong to BVDV group 1b.


pmid: 10555206
title: Pestivirus infection in small ruminants: virological and histopathological findings
abstract: Pestivirus infection was detected in several flocks of sheep and goats located in the south of Italy by means of serological, virological and histopathological investigations. From four animals, two lambs and two kids, showing enteric symptoms which died during the first week of life, four pestivirus strains were isolated and typed as BVDV-like (three isolates) and "tipic" BDV strains (one isolate). The histopathological lesions consisted of areas of hypomyelination in the brain, and a slight depletion of thymic medullary lymphocytes associated with an increase in reticular cells.


pmid: 8583645
title: Isolation of bovine viral diarrhea virus-like pestiviruses from roe deer (Capreolus capreolus)
abstract: Cytopathogenic pestiviruses were isolated from two seronegative free-ranging roe deer (Capreolus capreolus) from northern Germany (Schleswig-Holstein): an adult female and a young buck collected on 6 December 1990 and 26 July 1991, respectively. The two isolates were identified by polymerase chain reaction as pestiviruses. However, they were negative when primers specific for bovine virus diarrhea virus or classical swine fever virus were used, indicating that the two isolates might belong to a separate group of pestiviruses of wild ruminants different from BVDV.


pmid: 26281440
title: [Severe purulent and necrotizing glossitis in a fallow deer (Dama dama) due to an infection with the involvement of Mannheimia granulomatis]
abstract: Post mortem examination of a young fallow deer (Dama dama) revealed a severe purulent and necrotizing glossitis as well as a multifocal necrotizing and ulcerative rumenitis and typhlitis. The animal was cachectic. Mannheimia (M.) sp. was isolated from the tongue lesions and identified as M. granulomatis by MALDI-TOF MS and 16S rRNA sequencing. Mycosis and BVDV infection were excluded. Few publications are dealing with similar macroscopic findings associated with the isolation of M. granulomatis in cattle and roe deer. Therefore, M. granulomatis should also be taken into consideration when such lesions occur in other ruminants. Based on our findings in case of gross pathological lesions of the tongue of ruminants a Mannheimia granulomatis-infection should be investigated as well as the possible role of Fusobacterium necrophorum, Actinobacillus lignieresii or Actinomyces bovis.


pmid: 10794102
title: Photochemical decontamination of red blood cell concentrates with the silicon phthalocyanine PC 4 and red light
abstract: Various approaches are being developed for virus inactivation of red blood cell concentrates (RBCC) in order to increase the safety of the blood supply. We have been studying the silicon phthalocyanine Pc 4 for this purpose, a photosensitizer activated with red light. Pc 4 targets the envelope of pathogenic viruses such as HIV. To protect RBC during the process two main approaches are used: (i) inclusion of quenchers of reactive oxygen species produced during the treatment. Tocopherol succinate was found to be most effective for this purpose; (ii) formulation of Pc 4, a lipophilic compound, in liposomes that reduce its binding to RBC but not to viruses. As a light source we used a light emitting diode array emitting at 670-680 nm. An efficient mixing device ensures homogenous light exposure during treatment of intact RBCC. Treatment of 50 ml RBCC with 5 microM Pc 4 and 18 J/cm(2) light results in the inactivation of > or = 5.5 log(10) HIV, > or = 6.3 log(10), VSV and > or = 5 log(10) of PRV and BVDV. The relative sensitivities of these viruses based on the slope of virus kill versus light dose are 1.0, 1.25, 1.5 and 1.9 for HIV, VSV, PRV and BVDV, respectively. To achieve the same level of virus inactivation in 350 ml RBCC, the light dose needed is 40 J/cm(2). HIV actively replicating in CEM cells is as sensitive as cell-free and HIV in latently infected cells is 3-4 times more sensitive. Parasites that can be transmitted by blood transfusion (P. falciparum and T. cruzi) are even more sensitive than viruses. Following treatment, RBCC can be stored for 28 days at 4 degrees C with haemolysis below 1%. Previous studies under less favourable conditions showed that baboon RBC circulated with an acceptable 24 hr recovery and half-life. Genetic toxicological studies of Pc 4 with or without light exposure (mutagenicity in bacteria, mammalian cells in vitro and clastogenicity in vivo) were negative. We conclude that a process using Pc 4 and red light can potentially reduce the risk of transmitting pathogens in RBCC.


pmid: 26809100
title: Characterization of bovine A20 gene: Expression mediated by NF-κB pathway in MDBK cells infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus-1
abstract: Cytokine production for immunological process is tightly regulated at the transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels. The NF-κB signaling pathway maintains immune homeostasis in the cell through the participation of molecules such as A20 (TNFAIP3), which is a key regulatory factor in the immune response, hematopoietic differentiation, and immunomodulation. Although A20 has been identified in mammals, and despite recent efforts to identify A20 members in other higher vertebrates, relatively little is known about the composition of this regulator in other classes of vertebrates, particularly for bovines. In this study, the genetic context of bovine A20 was explored and compared against homologous genes in the human, mouse, chicken, dog, and zebrafish chromosomes. Through in silico analysis, several regions of interest were found conserved between even phylogenetically distant species. Additionally, a protein-deduced sequence of bovine A20 evidenced many conserved domains in humans and mice. Furthermore, all potential amino acid residues implicated in the active site of A20 were conserved. Finally, bovine A20 mRNA expression as mediated by the bovine viral diarrhea virus and poly (I:C) was evaluated. These analyses evidenced a strong fold increase in A20 expression following virus exposure, a phenomenon blocked by a pharmacological NF-κB inhibitor (BAY 117085). Interestingly, A20 mRNA had a half-life of only 32min, likely due to adenylate- and uridylate-rich elements in the 3'-untranslated region. Collectively, these data identify bovine A20 as a regulator of immune marker expression. Finally, this is the first report to find the bovine viral diarrhea virus modulating bovine A20 activation through the NF-κB pathway.


pmid: 3039901
title: Pathogenesis and epidemiology of border disease
abstract: The pathogenesis of BD virus infection of sheep is reviewed briefly. The most serious consequences occur when susceptible pregnant sheep are infected. The virus crosses the placenta readily and can cause foetal death with resorption, mummification or stillbirths. Other lambs survive, however, and are born with varying degrees of tremor and/or hairy fleeces. Many such "hairy-shaker" lambs die shortly after birth but survivors gradually recover. These survivors plus other apparently normal lambs can be persistently infected with virus and excrete it constantly often for the rest of their lives. It is these persistently infected sheep that are the key to the epidemiology of the virus and may be responsible for its introduction into a susceptible flock. In addition, cattle grazed with sheep are potentially an important source of pestiviruses capable of causing BD since in some herds the prevalence of cattle persistently infected with pestivirus is one to three per cent. Results are presented of studies on antigenic relation ships among Scottish isolates of cattle pestiviruses (BVD) and BD viruses, and the conclusion drawn that while a single strain of BVDV may be suitable for use as a cattle vaccine this would not be very efficacious in preventing BD since two antigenically distinguishable strains of BD virus have been identified. An effective vaccine against BD would have to protect sheep against both these strains and ideally a cattle vaccine should also contain both strains.


pmid: 34894141
title: Factors associated with bovine respiratory disease case fatality in feedlot cattle
abstract: Bovine respiratory disease (BRD) is the primary cause of morbidity and mortality in cattle feedlots. There is a need to understand what animal health and production factors are associated with increased mortality risk due to BRD. The aim of the present study was to explore factors associated with BRD case fatality in feedlot cattle. Four pens totaling 898 steers were monitored daily for visual signs of BRD such as difficult breathing and coughing, and animals exhibiting signs of BRD were taken to the hospital shed for further examination and clinical measures. Blood samples were obtained at feedlot entry and at time of first BRD pull from animals diagnosed with BRD (n = 121) and those that died due to BRD confirmed by postmortem examination (n = 16; 13.2% case fatality rate). Mixed-effects linear regression models were used to estimate differences in animal health and production factors and the relative concentrations of 34 identified blood metabolites between animals that survived versus those that died. Generalized linear mixed-effects models were used to obtain the odds of being seronegative (at both feedlot entry and first BRD pull) to 5 BRD viruses and having a positive nasal swab result at the time of first pull in died and survived animals. Animals that died from BRD had lower average daily gain (ADG), reduced weight at first BRD pull, higher visual BRD scores and received more treatments for BRD compared with animals that survived BRD (P < 0.05). The odds of being seronegative for bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 (BVDV-1) were 5.66 times higher for animals that died compared with those that survived (P = 0.013). The odds of having a positive bovine coronavirus nasal swab result were 13.73 times higher in animals that died versus those that survived (P = 0.007). Animals that died from BRD had higher blood concentrations of α glucose chain, β-hydroxybutyrate, leucine, phenylalanine, and pyruvate compared with those that survived (P < 0.05). Animals that died from BRD had lower concentrations of acetate, citrate, and glycine compared with animals that survived (P < 0.05). The results of the current study suggest that ADG to first BRD pull, weight at first BRD pull, visual BRD score, the number of BRD treatments, seronegativity to BVDV-1, virus positive to BCoV nasal swab, and that certain blood metabolites are associated with BRD case fatality risk. The ability of these measures to predict the risk of death due to BRD needs further research.


pmid: 12833676
title: [Indirect method ELISA for the detection of antibodies against bovine diarrhea virus in bovine serum]
abstract: Serological diagnosis is very important for the detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus, an important pathogen related to reproductive failure. Methods normally used for the detection of antibodies are serum neutralization (SN) and ELISA. The objective of this work was to standardize an indirect ELISA with SN. With a diagnostic sensitivity of 98.31% and a diagnostic specificity of 100%, this ELISA-BVDV shows good sensitivity, specificity and repeatability. It is easy to transfer, economical, and easy to perform.


pmid: 25549468
title: [Pathogenicity of noncytophatic isolates of bovine viral diarrhea virus in experimentally infected seronegative calves]
abstract: The results of experimental infection of seronegative calves with three non-cytopathogenic (NCP) isolates of BVDV isolated from cattle with different clinical manifestations of the disease belonging to genotype 1 (subgenotype 1a, 1b and 1d) are presented. All tested isolates showed the virulence for seronegative calves 4 to 6 months of age. Belonging to biotype did not correlate with the ability of the virus to infect the lymphoid tissues and to induce leukopenia. All isolates of the virus led to "transiting" leukopenia (up to 2880-3800 kl/mm3) for 8-10 days after infection. Isolate cluster 1d was more virulent and caused the development of a mild respiratory syndrome and short-term diarrhea. The virulence was "strain-dependent".


pmid: 11112498
title: Recombinant bovine adenovirus type 3 expressing bovine viral diarrhea virus glycoprotein E2 induces an immune response in cotton rats
abstract: Recombinant bovine adenovirus is being developed as a live vector for animal vaccination and for human gene therapy. In this study, two replication-competent bovine adenovirus 3 (BAV-3) recombinants (BAV331 and BAV338) expressing bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) glycoprotein E2 in the early region 3 (E3) of BAV-3 were constructed. Recombinant BAV331 contains chemically synthesized E2 gene (nucleotides modified to remove internal cryptic splice sites) under the control of BAV-3 E3/major late promoter (MLP), while recombinant BAV338 contains original E2 gene under the control of human cytomegalovirus immediate early promoter. Since E2, a class I membrane glycoprotein, does not contain its own signal peptide sequence at the 5' end, the bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1) glycoprotein D signal sequence was fused in frame to the E2 open reading frame (ORF) for proper processing of the E2 glycoprotein in both the recombinant viruses. Recombinant E2 protein expressed by BAV331 and BAV338 recombinant viruses was recognized by E2-specific monoclonal antibodies as a 53-kDa protein, which also formed dimer with an apparent molecular weight of 94 kDa. Insertion of an E2-expression cassette in the E3 region did not effect the replication of recombinant BAV-3s. Intranasal immunization of cotton rats with these recombinant viruses generated E2-specific IgA and IgG responses at the mucosal surfaces and in the serum. In summary, these results show that the pestivirus glycoprotein can be expressed efficiently by BAV-3. In addition, mucosal immunization with replication-competent recombinant bovine adenovirus 3 can induce a specific immune response against the expressed antigen.


pmid: 26535891
title: Immunisation of Sheep with Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus, E2 Protein Using a Freeze-Dried Hollow Silica Mesoporous Nanoparticle Formulation
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus 1 (BVDV-1) is arguably the most important viral disease of cattle. It is associated with reproductive, respiratory and chronic diseases in cattle across the world. In this study we have investigated the capacity of the major immunological determinant of BVDV-1, the E2 protein combined with hollow type mesoporous silica nanoparticles with surface amino functionalisation (HMSA), to stimulate immune responses in sheep. The current work also investigated the immunogenicity of the E2 nanoformulation before and after freeze-drying processes. The optimal excipient formulation for freeze-drying of the E2 nanoformulation was determined to be 5% trehalose and 1% glycine. This excipient formulation preserved both the E2 protein integrity and HMSA particle structure. Sheep were immunised three times at three week intervals by subcutaneous injection with 500 μg E2 adsorbed to 6.2 mg HMSA as either a non-freeze-dried or freeze-dried nanoformulation. The capacity of both nanovaccine formulations to generate humoral (antibody) and cell-mediated responses in sheep were compared to the responses in sheep immunisation with Opti-E2 (500 μg) together with the conventional adjuvant Quil-A (1 mg), a saponin from the Molina tree (Quillaja saponira). The level of the antibody responses detected to both the non-freeze-dried and freeze-dried Opti-E2/HMSA nanoformulations were similar to those obtained for Opti-E2 plus Quil-A, demonstrating the E2 nanoformulations were immunogenic in a large animal, and freeze-drying did not affect the immunogenicity of the E2 antigen. Importantly, it was demonstrated that the long term cell-mediated immune responses were detectable up to four months after immunisation. The cell-mediated immune responses were consistently high in all sheep immunised with the freeze-dried Opti-E2/HMSA nanovaccine formulation (>2,290 SFU/million cells) compared to the non-freeze-dried nanovaccine formulation (213-500 SFU/million cells). This study is the first to demonstrate that a freeze-dried silica mesoporous nanovaccine formulation gives balanced immune responses in a production animal.


pmid: 21908362
title: Development, optimization, and validation of a Classical swine fever virus real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay
abstract: Classical swine fever (CSF) is an economically devastating disease of pigs. Instrumental to the control of CSF is a well-characterized assay that can deliver a rapid, accurate diagnosis prior to the onset of clinical signs. A real-time fluorogenic-probe hydrolysis (TaqMan) reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for CSF was developed by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) at the Plum Island Animal Disease Center (CSF PIADC assay) and evaluated for analytical and diagnostic sensitivity and specificity. A well-characterized panel including Classical swine fever virus (CSFV), Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), and Border disease virus (BDV) isolates was utilized in initial feasibility and optimization studies. The assay was initially designed and validated for use on the ABI 7900HT using the Qiagen QuantiTect® Probe RT-PCR chemistry. However, demonstrating equivalency with multiple one-step RT-PCR chemistries and PCR platforms increased the versatility of the assay. Limit of detection experiments indicated that the Qiagen QuantiTect® Multiplex (NoROX) and the Invitrogen SuperScript® III RT-PCR kits were consistently the most sensitive one-step chemistries for use with the CSF PIADC primer/probe set. Analytical sensitivity of the CSF PIADC assay ranged from <1-2.95 log(10) TCID(50)/ml on both the ABI 7900HT and ABI 7500 platforms. The CSF PIADC assay had 100% diagnostic sensitivity and specificity when tested on a panel of 152 clinical samples from the Dominican Republic and Colombia. The ability to perform this newly developed assay in 96-well formats provides an increased level of versatility for use in CSF surveillance programs.


pmid: 31357167
title: Genomic and antigenic characterization of a cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus 1i isolated in the United States
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDV) are a common global viral pathogen of ruminants. Considerable genetic variability is found amongst BVDV1 isolates, with at least 21 subgenotypes being described. In the United States, BVDV1a and 1b are the only subgenotypes described to date. Here, the genomic sequence of CA2005, a cytopathic BVDV1, was determined. This virus, isolated in California, did not segregate into either BVDV1a or 1b subgenotypes. BLAST analysis showed CA2005 was most closely related to BVDV1i isolates. CA2005 was also the first cytopathic BVDV1i and one of few non-1a, non-1b cytopathic viruses reported. The genomic sequence was 15,752 nucleotides in length. Cytopathogenicity was conferred by duplication of the NS3 protein with a small ubiquitin B insertion at the border of the NS2/NS3 proteins. Virus neutralization assays using antisera against BVDV1a vaccine viruses revealed variable neutralization, suggesting modified live vaccines may not be totally protective against CA2005 and similar viruses.


pmid: 24735072
title: Clinical Presentation Resembling Mucosal Disease Associated with 'HoBi'-like Pestivirus in a Field Outbreak
abstract: The genus Pestivirus of the family Flaviviridae consists of four recognized species: Bovine viral diarrhoea virus 1 (BVDV-1), Bovine viral diarrhoea virus 2 (BVDV-2), Classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and Border disease virus (BDV). Recently, atypical pestiviruses ('HoBi'-like pestiviruses) were identified in batches of contaminated foetal calf serum and in naturally infected cattle with and without clinical symptoms. Here, we describe the first report of a mucosal disease-like clinical presentation (MD) associated with a 'HoBi'-like pestivirus occurring in a cattle herd. The outbreak was investigated using immunohistochemistry, antibody detection, viral isolation and RT-PCR. The sequence and phylogenetic analysis of 5'NCR, N(pro) and E2 regions of the RT-PCR positive samples showed that four different 'HoBi'-like strains were circulating in the herd. The main clinical signs and lesions were observed in the respiratory and digestive systems, but skin lesions and corneal opacity were also observed. MD characteristic lesions and a pestivirus with cytopathic biotype were detected in one calf. The present study is the first report of a MD like presentation associated with natural infection with 'HoBi'-like pestivirus. This report describes the clinical signs and provides a pathologic framework of an outbreak associated with at least two different 'HoBi'-like strains. Based on these observations, it appears that these atypical pestiviruses are most likely underdiagnosed in Brazilian cattle.


pmid: 19445965
title: Antiviral activity of indole derivatives
abstract: Unsymmetrical methylene derivatives 5 were prepared following a known method, by reaction of the Mannich bases of 2-naphthols 4 with indoles. All synthesized compounds were tested against a wide panel of viruses, since previous work showed that Mannich bases on 7-hydroxycoumarin 1 and unsymmetrical methylene derivatives 2 were endowed with some antiviral activities. The symmetrical Mannich bases 4 were completely inactive, whereas the unsymmetrical methylene derivatives 5, although possessing a certain degree of toxicity, showed a significant activity against RSV. Some of compounds 5 showed a moderate antiviral activity against HIV-1, BVDV, YFV and CVB-2. The lack of activity of Mannich bases 4 demonstrates the crucial importance for antiviral activity of coumarin moiety present in Mannich bases 1.


pmid: 15910918
title: Evaluation of virus decontamination techniques for porcine embryos produced in vitro
abstract: The objective of this study was to explore approaches to decontaminate embryos either contaminated naturally or under experimental conditions with different viruses. Embryos were obtained from in vitro maturation and fertilisation of porcine oocytes. After 7 days of development, morula and blastocyst stages were exposed for 1 h to the following viruses: encephalomyocarditis virus (EMCV), porcine circovirus type 2 (PCV2), porcine parvovirus (PPV), porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV), and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) at an infectivity of 100 TCID50/mL. Embryos samples were treated with different washing procedures, which all included the following standard washing solutions: PBS+0.4% BSA (five times for 10 s), Hank's+0.25% trypsin (two times for 60-90 or 120-150 s, or one time of 5 min), Hank's+0.1 mg/mL DNase 1+20 U/mL RNase One (one time of 30 min) and PBS+0.4% BSA again (five times for 10s). Two new approaches were used to improve trypsin treatment, 0.1% hyaluronidase (one time for 5 min) instead of trypsin and a pre-incubation with oviductal cells. Therefore, in the first experiment, oocytes received standard maturation treatments and in the second, they were also co-incubated with oviductal cells for the last 3 h of maturation. The effectiveness of the different washing techniques in removing viruses was evaluated by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis. In the first experiment, trypsin treatment did not eliminate PRRSV, PPV, PCV, and EMCV from contaminated embryos. Surprisingly, treatment with hyaluronidase eliminated all tested viruses. In the second experiment, all viruses tested were removed from the oocytes following the different enzymatic treatments. In conclusion, in vitro embryo decontamination was more effective following exposure to oviductal secretions and hyaluronidase eliminated more virions than trypsin in washing techniques.


pmid: 35143504
title: Limitations of bacterial culture, viral PCR, and tulathromycin susceptibility from upper respiratory tract samples in predicting clinical outcome of tulathromycin control or treatment of bovine respiratory disease in high-risk feeder heifers
abstract: A cross-sectional prospective cohort study including 1026 heifers administered tulathromycin due to high risk of clinical signs of bovine respiratory disease (BRD), measured poor association between BRD clinical outcomes and results of bacterial culture and tulathromycin susceptibility from BRD isolates of deep nasopharyngeal swabs (DNS) and adequate association with viral polymerase chain reaction (PCR) results from nasal swabs. Isolation rates from DNS collected on day-0 and at 1st BRD-treatment respectively were: Mannheimia haemolytica (10.9% & 34.1%); Pasteurella multocida (10.4% & 7.4%); Mycoplasma bovis (1.0% & 36.6%); and Histophilus somni (0.7% & 6.3%). Prevalence of BRD viral nucleic acid on nasal swabs collected exclusively at 1st BRD-treatment were: bovine parainfluenza virus type-3 (bPIV-3) 34.1%; bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) 26.3%; bovine herpes virus type-1 (BHV-1) 10.8%; and bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) 54.1%. Increased relative risk, at 95% confidence intervals, of 1st BRD-treatment failure was associated with positive viral PCR results: BVDV 1.39 (1.17-1.66), bPIV-3 1.26 (1.06-1.51), BHV-1 1.52 (1.25-1.83), and BRSV 1.35 (1.11-1.63) from nasal swabs collected at 1st BRD-treatment and culture of M. haemolytica 1.23 (1.00-1.51) from DNS collected at day-0. However, in this population of high-risk feeder heifers, the predictive values of susceptible and resistant isolates had inadequate association with BRD clinical outcome. These results indicate, that using tulathromycin susceptibility testing of isolates of M. haemolytica or P. multocida from DNS collected on arrival or at 1st BRD-treatment to evaluate tulathromycin clinical efficacy, is unreliable.


pmid: 35688413
title: Detection of bovine gammaherpesvirus 6 in tissues of aborted fetuses from dairy cows concomitantly infected by Histophilus somni
abstract: Bovine gammaherpesvirus 6 (BoGHV6), formerly known as bovine lymphotropic virus, is a member of the Macavirus genus, subfamily Gammaherpesvirinae, family Herpesviridae, that was initially associated with proliferative diseases in cattle. While the Macavirus genus contains agents, including alcelaphine gammaherpesvirus 1 (AlGHV1), ovine gammaherpesvirus 2 (OvGHV2), and caprine gammaherpesvirus-2, CpGHV2, known to cause malignant catarrhal fever (MCF), and are collectively referred to as MCF virus (MCFV) group of organisms, diseases and/or clinical syndromes have not been associated with BoGHV6 and porcine lymphotropic herpesvirus (PLHV). This report investigated the occurrence of BoGHV6 in tissues of aborted dairy fetuses known to be infected by Histophilus somni to identify possible disease patterns associated with infection by this Macavirus. A nested-PCR (nPCR) assay was used to amplify the BoGHV6 polymerase gene from multiple tissues of 13 fetuses and the cow of one of these which were derived from seven dairy herds located in three geographical regions of Brazil. Direct sequencing confirmed the results of the nPCR assays. Additionally, all fetal tissues were previously investigated for the presence of H. somni, Listeria monocytogenes, Neospora caninum, Brucella abortus, Leptospira spp., bovine alphaherpesvirus 1, and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) by PCR and/or RT-PCR assays. The nPCR assay amplified BoGHV6 DNA from fetuses of most dairy herds (85.7%; 6/7) investigated, resulting in the amplification of BoGHV6 from 76.9% (10/13) of all fetuses evaluated from two geographical and important cattle-producing regions of Brazil. Furthermore, only BoGHV6 was identified in the spleen (n = 3), myocardium, and kidney (n = 2) of five fetuses, and BoGHV6 was the only agent associated with myocarditis in one of these. Nevertheless, dual, triple, and quadruple infections (including BVDV, B. abortus, and N. caninum) were identified in fetuses that were concomitantly infected by H. somni. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the strain herein identified has 100% nucleotide (nt) sequence identity with wild type strains of BoGHV6 circulating in ruminants from Brazil and 99.8% nt identity with the reference strain of BoGHV6 but was 72.2-73.3% and 67.4-68.2% different from members of the MCFV group and PLHV, respectively. These results demonstrated that 76.9% of the fetuses evaluated were infected by BoGHV6, most likely via vertical infection resulting in transplacental transmission. Considering that most fetuses were concomitantly infected by BoGHV6 and H. somni the real impact of this viral infection cannot be efficiently determined. However, since BoGHV6 was the only pathogen identified in the myocardium of one fetus with myocarditis by histopathology, the possible participation of this Macavirus in the etiopathogenesis of the myocardial disease observed in this fetus cannot be ignored or discarded. However, the mere amplification of BoGHV6 DNA from the myocardium is not enough to establish a definite association between cause and effect, since in situ evaluations and experimental studies would be needed to confirm this agent in the etiopathogenesis of fetal diseases and/or abortions in cattle. Consequently, additional studies are needed to determine the exact role, if any, of BoGHV6 in the development of fetal disease, and possibly fetal mortality.


pmid: 22898534
title: Atypical cerebral listeriosis associated with Listeria innocua in a beef bull
abstract: Natural infections of cattle associated with Listeria innocua have not been reported. This report describes the first case of cerebral listeriosis in a bull due to Listeria innocua. The animal presented neurological signs characterized by weakness, incoordination and recumbency. Histopathologic evaluation of brain tissue revealed multifocal microabscesses, perivascular lymphocytic cuffing, vasculitis, oedema and haemorrhages. All lesions extended from the medulla oblongata to the basal nuclei/parietal cortex area. Indirect immunohistochemistry labelled for Listeria sp. in the brain tissue, but not for Listeria monocytogenes, neurotropic Flaviviruses, BVDV, bovine Herpesvirus 1, Chlamydophila spp. and Histophilus somni. PCR was negative for ovine herpesvirus. L. innocua was isolated from brainstem and identified by biochemical tests (Camp and beta-hemolysis negative). Subsequently, the species was confirmed by a duplex PCR and minisequencing assays. L. innocua should be histologically considered as a differential diagnosis of thrombotic meningoencephalitis, malignant catarrhal fever and cerebral listeriosis due to L. monocytogenes in cattle.


pmid: 22085446
title: Molecular characteristics of bovine virus diarrhoea virus 1 isolates from Turkey: approaches for an eradication programme
abstract: Forty pestivirus isolates sampled from cattle in Turkey between 2002 and 2007 were characterized according to 5' untranslated region (5'UTR) sequences and autoprotease (N(pro) ) gene sequences. The sampling of Bovine virus diarrhoea viruses (BVDVs) from 15 farms in five different regions indicated that BVDV 1-l (18/40, 45%) was the predominant genotype in Turkey; the samples also contained the genotypes 1-f (10/40, 25%), 1-b (7/40, 17.5%), 1-d (3/40, 7.5%), and 1-a (2/40, 5%), respectively.


pmid: 34696239
title: Advancements in the Growth and Construction of Recombinant Lumpy Skin Disease Virus (LSDV) for Use as a Vaccine Vector
abstract: Attenuated vaccine strains of lumpy skin disease virus (LSDV) have become increasingly popular as recombinant vaccine vectors, to target both LSDV, as well as other pathogens, including human infectious agents. Historically, these vaccine strains and recombinants were generated in primary (lamb) testis (LT) cells, Madin-Darby bovine kidney (MDBK) cells or in eggs. Growth in eggs is a laborious process, the use of primary cells has the potential to introduce pathogens and MDBK cells are known to harbor bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). In this study, data is presented to show the growth of an attenuated LSDV strain in baby hamster kidney (BHK-21) cells. Subsequently, a recombinant LSDV vaccine was generated in BHK-21 cells. Partial growth was also observed in rabbit kidney cells (RK13), but only when the vaccinia virus host range gene K1L was expressed. Despite the limited growth, the expression of K1L was enough to serve as a positive selection marker for the generation of recombinant LSDV vaccines in RK13 cells. The simplification of generating (recombinant) LSDV vaccines shown here should increase the interest for this platform for future livestock vaccine development and, with BHK-21 cells approved for current good manufacturing practice, this can be expanded to human vaccines as well.


pmid: 33036281
title: Bovine Pestivirus Heterogeneity and Its Potential Impact on Vaccination and Diagnosis
abstract: Bovine Pestiviruses A and B, formerly known as bovine viral diarrhoea viruses (BVDV)-1 and 2, respectively, are important pathogens of cattle worldwide, responsible for significant economic losses. Bovine viral diarrhoea control programmes are in effect in several high-income countries but less so in low- and middle-income countries where bovine pestiviruses are not considered in disease control programmes. However, bovine pestiviruses are genetically and antigenically diverse, which affects the efficiency of the control programmes. The emergence of atypical ruminant pestiviruses (Pestivirus H or BVDV-3) from various parts of the world and the detection of Pestivirus D (border disease virus) in cattle highlights the challenge that pestiviruses continue to pose to control measures including the development of vaccines with improved cross-protective potential and enhanced diagnostics. This review examines the effect of bovine pestivirus diversity and emergence of atypical pestiviruses in disease control by vaccination and diagnosis.


pmid: 11163670
title: Chimeric (marker) C-strain viruses induce clinical protection against virulent classical swine fever virus (CSFV) and reduce transmission of CSFV between vaccinated pigs
abstract: Two live recombinant vaccines (Flc9 and Flc11) against classical swine fever (CSF) were evaluated for their capacity to reduce transmission of virulent CSF virus (CSFV) among vaccinated pigs. In Flc9 the 5' terminal half of the E2 gene of the C-strain, a CSFV vaccine strain, was exchanged with the homologous gene of the bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) strain 5250, the E(rns) gene was exchanged likewise in the chimeric Flc11 virus. Both recombinant vaccines induce an antibody response in pigs that can be distinguished from that induced after a wild-type CSFV infection. Four experiments were performed to estimate the reproduction ratio R after different vaccination-challenge intervals. Each group consisted of ten pigs [specified pathogen free (SPF) pigs or conventional pigs] that were vaccinated once, intramuscularly, either with Flc9 or Flc11 virus or that were not vaccinated. Vaccinated and susceptible pigs were challenged intranasally with the virulent CSFV strain Brescia or Behring, 1, 2 or 4 weeks after vaccination. Whether contact-pigs became infected was determined using a CSFV specific E2 (Flc9) or E(rns) (FLc11) antibody ELISA. In the unvaccinated control groups, virus secretion started from day 2 to 4 after inoculation and all contact pigs became infected. Contact pigs became infected in the group of pigs (SPF or conventional) vaccinated once with Flc9 virus and challenged 1-, 2- or 4-weeks later. The estimates of the R in the groups challenged at 1-, 2- and 4-weeks after vaccination were 0.38, 0 and 0.75, respectively. Contact infected pigs were not detected (R=0) in any of the groups of pigs, vaccinated with Flc11, only SPF pigs were used. In order to achieve a statistical significance of R within the vaccinated groups each of the experiments has to be repeated at least once. The R of pigs vaccinated with Flc11 virus and challenged at 1- or 2-weeks after vaccination was however significantly lower that the reproduction ratio of the unvaccinated groups (P=0.013). The R of pigs vaccinated with Flc9 virus and challenged at 1 (conventional pigs) or 2 weeks (SPF pigs) after vaccination was significantly lower that the reproduction ratio of the unvaccinated groups (P=0.013). In conclusion, both chimeric viruses Flc9 and Flc11 provided good clinical protection against a challenge with virulent CSFV at 1 or 2 weeks after vaccination. Further experiments should be carried out to study more aspects of the efficacy of these recombinant viruses before they can be used as a marker vaccine under field circumstances.


pmid: 23511203
title: Intra-host variation structure of classical swine fever virus NS5B in relation to antiviral therapy
abstract: Classical swine fever (CSF) is one of most important diseases of the Suidea with severe social economic consequences in case of outbreaks. Antivirals have been demonstrated, in recent publications, to be an interesting alternative method of fighting the disease. However, classical swine fever virus is an RNA virus which presents a challenge as intra-host variation and the error prone RNA dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) could lead to the emergence/selection of resistant variants hampering further treatment. Therefore, it was the purpose of this study to investigate the intra-host variation of the RdRp gene, targeted by antivirals, in respect to antiviral treatment. Using the non-unique nucleotide changes, a limited intra-host variation was found in the wild type virus with 2 silent and 2 non-synonymous sites. This number shifted significantly when an antiviral resistant variant was analyzed. In total 22nt changes were found resulting in 14 amino acid changes whereby each genome copy contained at least 2 amino-acid changes in the RdRp. Interestingly, the frequency of the mutations situated in close proximity to a region involved in antiviral resistance in CSFV and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) was elevated compared to the other mutations. None of the identified mutations in the resistant variant and which could potentially result in antiviral resistance was present in the wild type virus as a non-unique mutation. In view of the spectrum of mutations identified in the resistance associated region and that none of the resistance associated mutations reported for another strain of classical swine fever for the same antiviral were observed in the study, it can be suggested that multiple mutations confer resistance to some degree. Although the followed classical approach allowed the analysis the RdRp as a whole, the contribution of unique mutations to the intra-host variation could not be completely resolved. There was a significant difference in de number of unique mutations found between: 1/wild type virus and the antiviral resistant variant and 2/between both and the number to be expected from the error rate of the RT-PCR process. This indicates that the some of the unique mutations contributed to the intra-host variation and that the antiviral pressure also shifted this pattern. This is important as one of the non-synonymous mutations found in the resistant variant and which was located in the antiviral resistance associated region, was present in the wild type virus as a unique mutation. The findings presented in this study not only show the importance of intra-host variation analysis but also warrants further research certainly in view of the potential inclusion of antivirals in a control/eradication strategy.


pmid: 21249176
title: Identification and characterization of the host protein DNAJC14 as a broadly active flavivirus replication modulator
abstract: Viruses in the Flavivirus genus of the Flaviviridae family are arthropod-transmitted and contribute to staggering numbers of human infections and significant deaths annually across the globe. To identify cellular factors with antiviral activity against flaviviruses, we screened a cDNA library using an iterative approach. We identified a mammalian Hsp40 chaperone protein (DNAJC14) that when overexpressed was able to mediate protection from yellow fever virus (YFV)-induced cell death. Further studies revealed that DNAJC14 inhibits YFV at the step of viral RNA replication. Since replication of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV), a member of the related Pestivirus genus, is also known to be modulated by DNAJC14, we tested the effect of this host factor on diverse Flaviviridae family members. Flaviviruses, including the pathogenic Asibi strain of YFV, Kunjin, and tick-borne Langat virus, as well as a Hepacivirus, hepatitis C virus (HCV), all were inhibited by overexpression of DNAJC14. Mutagenesis showed that both the J-domain and the C-terminal domain, which mediates self-interaction, are required for anti-YFV activity. We found that DNAJC14 does not block YFV nor HCV NS2-3 cleavage, and using non-inhibitory mutants demonstrate that DNAJC14 is recruited to YFV replication complexes. Immunofluorescence analysis demonstrated that endogenous DNAJC14 rearranges during infection and is found in replication complexes identified by dsRNA staining. Interestingly, silencing of endogenous DNAJC14 results in impaired YFV replication suggesting a requirement for DNAJC14 in YFV replication complex assembly. Finally, the antiviral activity of overexpressed DNAJC14 occurs in a time- and dose-dependent manner. DNAJC14 overexpression may disrupt the proper stoichiometry resulting in inhibition, which can be overcome upon restoration of the optimal ratios due to the accumulation of viral nonstructural proteins. Our findings, together with previously published work, suggest that the members of the Flaviviridae family have evolved in unique and important ways to interact with this host Hsp40 chaperone molecule.


pmid: 17531282
title: Ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of interferon regulatory factor-3 induced by Npro from a cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: The pathogenesis of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) infections is complex and only partly understood. It remains controversial whether interferon is produced in cells infected with cytopathic(cp) BVDVs which do not persist in vivo. We show here that a cpBVDV (NADL strain) does not induce interferon responses in cell culture and blocks induction of interferon-stimulated genes by a super-infecting paramyxovirus. cpBVDV infection causes a marked loss of interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF-3), a cellular transcription factor that controls interferon synthesis. This is attributed to expression of Npro, but not its protease activity. Npro interacts with IRF-3, prior to its activation by virus-induced phosphorylation, resulting in polyubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of IRF-3. Thermal inactivation of the E1 ubiquitin-activating enzyme prevents Npro-induced IRF-3 loss. These data suggest that inhibition of interferon production is a shared feature of both ncp and cpBVDVs and provide new insights regarding IRF-3 regulation in pestivirus pathogenesis.


pmid: 8483893
title: An immunocytochemical search for infectious agents in Crohn's disease
abstract: Microorganisms have long been suspected of causing Crohn's disease (CD); however, an etiologic agent has yet to be identified. Few studies have employed immunocytochemistry (ICC) to examine tissue from patients with CD for microbial antigens. We investigated 36 formalin-fixed tissues from 16 patients with CD with ICC. No evidence of adenovirus, Borrelia, Brucella, BVDV, Campylobacter, Campylobacter-like organisms, Chlamydia, coronavirus, CMV, EBV, Legionella, mycobacteria, Pseudomonas, rotavirus, Salmonella, Shigella, staphylococci, Toxoplasma gondii, Treponema, or Yersinia was found. ICC identified E. coli and streptococcal antigens in 11 (69%) and 10 (63%) of the 16 cases studied, respectively. Escherichia coli immunoreactivity was located in ulcers, within the lamina propria, and along fissures. Streptococcal immunolabeling occurred within mucosal epithelial cells, in the lamina propria, in ulcers, along fissures, in granulomatous inflammation including multinucleate giant cells, and in lymph nodes. These results suggest that some of the granulomas in CD may result from immunologic processing of bacterial antigens following their penetration through a compromised mucosa. E. coli and streptococcal antigens may contribute to the pathogenesis of CD.


pmid: 30992598
title: Vaccine usage in western Canadian cow-calf herds
abstract: The aims of this study were to describe when and how vaccines are administered during the production cycle in cow-calf herds in western Canada, as well as the factors that influence vaccine usage as reported by producers. The most commonly used vaccines were bovine viral diarrhea virus/infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (BVDV/IBR) in adult animals and clostridial vaccines in calves. While there has been improvement in usage of reproductive and respiratory viral vaccines since previous studies, there are still several areas in which uptake could be improved. Only 72% of herd owners vaccinated their bulls for at least 1 disease. Not all producers are vaccinating their calves for clostridial diseases, and 15% of producers did not vaccinate their calves for respiratory disease before weaning. One goal of increasing vaccine use is to obtain better infection prevention and control and decrease antimicrobial use in cow-calf herds. Two areas in which antimicrobials are commonly used, but vaccine uptake is limited, are foot rot in adult cows and diarrhea in calves.


pmid: 23385070
title: Infection of cattle with Border disease virus by sheep on communal alpine pastures
abstract: The purpose of this study was to investigate whether sheep grazing communal alpine pastures with cattle can transmit Border disease virus (BDV) to cattle. A total of 1170 sheep and 923 cattle were tested for BDV using RT-PCR (sheep) and for pestivirus antibodies using an ELISA (cattle), respectively, before being moved to one of 4 pastures (A, B, C and D). Eight sheep from pasture C were viraemic. 396 of 923 cattle examined before the pasture season were seronegative. The latter were re-examined after the pasture season and 99 were seropositive or indeterminate. Antibody specificity was determined in 25 of these using a serum neutralization test (SNT). BDV infection was confirmed in 10 cattle and was considered likely in 8 others. BVDV infection was confirmed in 4 cattle and considered likely in 3 after pasturing. The study has shown that the transmission of BDV from sheep to cattle is possible on communal alpine pastures.


pmid: 29378006
title: Effects of timing of vaccination relative to weaning and post-weaning frequency of energy supplementation on growth and immunity of beef calves
abstract: A 2 × 2 factorial design study evaluated the impact of pre- vs. post-weaning vaccination and different post-weaning frequency of energy supplementation (daily vs. 3X weekly) on growth and immunity of beef calves. At 14 d before weaning (d -14), 48 Angus calves (24 steers and 24 heifers; 244 ± 33 kg; 196 ± 20 d) were stratified by BW and age, and randomly assigned to receive vaccinations against bovine viral diarrhea virus 1a (BVDV-1a) and parainfluenza-3 (PI-3) on d -14 and 0 (PRE) or 7 and 21 (POS), relative to weaning. Calves were weaned on d 0 and offered daily concentrate DM supplementation (50:50 soybean hulls and corn gluten feed; 71% TDN, 15% CP of DM) at 0.5% of BW for 7 d. On d 7, calves were stratified by vaccination scheme and assigned into 1 of 16 drylot pens (3 calves of same sex/pen; 4 pens/treatment). Pens were randomly assigned to receive similar weekly concentrate DM supplementation (1% of BW multiplied by 7 d) that was divided and offered daily (7X) or three times weekly (3X; Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays) from d 7 to 43. From d 0 to 43, calves were provided ad libitum ground tall fescue hay (57% TDN, 13% CP of DM). Blood samples were collected from jugular vein on d 0, 1, 3, 7, and 14, relative to the respective first vaccination, and on d 43 of the study. Effects of timing of vaccination × frequency of supplementation were not detected for any variable in this study (P ≥ 0.12), except for overall ADG from d -14 to 43 (P = 0.04), which was less for PRE-3X vs. PRE-7X, POS-3X, and POS-7X calves (0.60, 0.70, 0.70, and 0.77 ± 0.04 kg/d, respectively; P ≤ 0.08). Post-weaning total DMI and G:F did not differ among treatments (P ≥ 0.11). Pre-weaning vaccination increased plasma concentrations of cortisol and haptoglobin from d 0 to 3, relative to first vaccination (P ≤ 0.03), and decreased serum PI-3 titers on d 43 compared with post-weaning vaccination (P < 0.0001). Decreasing the supplementation frequency tended (P = 0.10) to increase overall plasma cortisol concentrations and reduce overall serum BVDV-1a titers. Hence, pre-weaning vaccination associated with reduced post-weaning frequency of energy supplementation caused the greatest reduction on calf growth performance. Post-weaning vaccination and daily energy supplementation alleviated inflammation and improved humoral immunity compared with pre-weaning vaccination and reduced post-weaning frequency of energy supplementation of recently weaned beef calves.


pmid: 11022785
title: Evolution of viruses by acquisition of cellular RNA or DNA nucleotide sequences and genes: an introduction
abstract: The origins of virus evolution may be traced to Archeabacteria since Inouye and Inouye (6) discovered a retroelement with a gene for reverse transcriptase in the bacterial genome and in the satellite, multiple copy single stranded DNA (msDNA) in the soil bacterium Myxococcus xanthus. It was possible (8) to define the evolution of retroelements in eukaryotic cells of plants, insects (gypsy retrovirus) and vertebrates. The replication of RNA viruses in eukaryotic cells allowed for the viral RNA genome to integrate a cellular ubiquitin mRNA, as reported for BVDV (24). Another example is the integration of 28S ribosomal RNA into the hemagglutinin gene of an influenza virus. This change in the hemagglutinin gene led to an increased pathogenicity of the influenza virus (25). In contrast to RNA viruses, DNA viruses had evolved by inserting cDNA molecules derived from mRNA transcripts of cellular genes or foreign viral RNA. It is of interest that the virus acquired cellular genes in the genomes of DNA viruses represent genes that code for proteins that inhibit cellular molecular processes related to HLA class I and II molecules. The other acquired genes are cellular genes that code for cytokines that are capable of inhibiting antigen presentation to T cells by antigen presenting cells (APC) by dendritic Langerhans cells. The acquisition of cellular genes by DNA viruses enhances their pathogenicity by inhibiting the hosts' defense systems.


pmid: 32664468
title: Cross-Reactivity Antibody Response after Vaccination with Modified Live and Killed Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVD) Vaccines
abstract: Pestivirus A or bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) type 1 is responsible for cosmopolitan diseases affecting cattle and other ruminants, presenting a wide range of clinical manifestations, with relevant impact on zootechnic production. The objective of the present study was to verify whether animals immunised with four commercial vaccines also developed a protective humoral immunity against other viral subgenotypes than those contained in each vaccine. Four groups of 25 bovines each were formed and vaccinated according to the manufacturer's instructions of the commercial vaccines. On sera collected 28 days after the last vaccination, virus neutralisation tests (VNT) were performed using homologous and heterologous viruses and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) methods. Finally, the VNT results were comparatively evaluated through a statistical analysis. Serological results highlighted that, although with a different degree of efficiency, the four vaccines resulted in not developing a solid antibody-mediated cross-immunity against all the strains used.


pmid: 28783589
title: Infection exposure, detection and causes of death in perinatal mortalities in Polish dairy herds
abstract: The objective of this study was to determine the prevalence and types of infections in perinatal mortality (PM) cases from Polish dairy farms and the relevance of the presence of infection to the cause of death. This prospective longitudinal study was carried out on 121 PM and 21 control calves with a gestation of ≥260 days. Six control calves were euthanized and examined using the same protocol as for PM calves. Material was collected over a 20-month period between November 2013 and June 2015. The PM and control calves were collected from 29 to 5 herds, respectively. Blood samples from calves were tested for antibodies to Neospora caninum, glycoprotein B of BoHV-1, BVDV and SBV using ELISAs and Leptospira hardjo and Leptospira pomona with the microscopic agglutination test. Brain and kidney samples from all PM and six euthanized control calves were tested using real time PCR to detect Neospora caninum, pathogenic Leptospira spp., BoHV-1 and SBV; brain was examined histopathologically for detection of N. caninum cysts. Samples from eight inner organs from all PM and six control calves were cultured aerobically, anaerobically and microaerobically. Ear samples from all PM and control calves were tested for BVDV using an antigen ELISA. In total, 21.5% of PM calves were infected (antigen and/or antibody-positive) in utero; none of the control calves were infected. Direct evidence of infection (culture, Ag-ELISA, PCR, histopathology) was detected in 9.1% of PM calves. Gestation length in infected singletons was shorter than in uninfected singletons (274 ± 8 vs. 279 ± 7 days; P < 0.01). The odds ratio for diagnosis of infection in single pregnancies ≤275 days was 3.75 (95% CI:1.2-12.1), (P < 0.05). Infection was the cause of death in 10% of calves. The most common infections detected in these Polish PM calves were parasitic (11.6% of PM cases), viral (7.4%) and bacterial (5%). This study demonstrated that indirect evidence of infection is detected more frequently than direct, coinfection is rare, infection is rarely accompanied by gross lesions and is rarely a cause of death in cases of PM.


pmid: 27544252
title: The European hare (Lepus europaeus) as a potential wild reservoir for ruminant pestiviruses
abstract: Ruminant pestiviruses cause important economic losses in livestock and the epidemiological role of free-ranging sympatric wildlife is of special interest for the implementation of pestivirus eradication plans. Moreover, the emergence of high mortality outbreaks of pestivirus in Pyrenean chamois (Rupicapra pyrenaica pyrenaica) since 2001 in the border between Spain and France has increased the value of knowing the hosts that role pestivirus infection. In the present study, pestivirus infection was assessed in 94 sera from wild hunted European hares (Lepus europaeus) collected in two different areas: Pyrenees (alpine and subalpine ecosystems) versus Non Pyrenees (non alpine and subalpine ecosystems). The presence of antibodies against Border Disease Virus (BDV) and Bovine Viral Diarrhea Virus (BVDV) was evaluated by means of the Virus Neutralization Test and the presence of viral RNA in sera samples was assessed by Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). A total of 34 out of 94 (36.2%; CI95 0.26-0.46) sera presented neutralizing antibodies against ruminant pestiviruses, and significant differences between BDV4 and BVDV1 titres were found in 7 hares. In the Pyrenean area not statistically significant seroprevalence was observed when comparing with the Non Pyrenean area. RT-PCR analysis of sera samples resulted all negative. The results of the present study indicate that the European hare is susceptible to pestivirus infection and that could be involved in the epidemiology of ruminant pestiviruses. To the authors' knowledge, this is the third wild non-artiodactyl with reported antibodies against ruminant pestivirus after the rabbit and Bennet's wallaby.


pmid: 27448824
title: Rapid detection of novel caprine parainfluenza virus type 3 (CPIV3) using a TaqMan-based RT-qPCR
abstract: Parainfluenza virus type 3 (PIV3) is one of the most important respiratory pathogens for humans and many animals. A novel caprine PIV3 (CPIV3) was recently identified and isolated from Chinese goat flocks with respiratory disease. In order to develop rapid and sensitive methods for CPIV3 detection in infected goats, a TaqMan RT-qPCR was established in this study based on the primers and probe designed to amplify a 150 nucleotide-long region located within the M gene of the virus. The method was able to detect about 1.0×10(1) DNA copies/μL with an efficiency of 99.6% and a R(2) value of 0.997. There were no cross-reaction observed using this technique against peste des petits ruminants virus (PPRV), border disease virus (BDV), bluetongue virus (BTV) and bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). One hundred and fourteen samples, including nasal swabs, feces swabs, sera, hearts, livers, spleens, lungs, kidneys, tracheas and hilar lymph nodes (HLNs) from six challenged goats, were evaluated by this technique. Using TaqMan RT-qPCR, CPIV3 was positively detected in 51 of 114 samples (44.74%), which was higher than RT-PCR (27.19%, 31/114) and virus isolation (14.9%, 17/114), respectively. The method also gave higher positive detection rate (35%, 42/120) than RT-PCR (28.33%, 34/120) from clinical samples. These data indicated that this method could be used for faster and more accurate monitoring of viral load, disease progression and vaccination efficacy of CPIV3 in goat flocks.


pmid: 28539533
title: Evaluation of control measures for bovine viral diarrhea implemented in Nemuro District, Hokkaido, Japan, using a scenario tree model
abstract: A scenario tree model was developed to propose efficient bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) control measures. The model used field data in eastern Hokkaido where the risk of BVDV infection in cattle has been reduced by an eradication program including mass vaccination, individual tests prior to communal pasture grazing, herd screening tests using bulk milk, and outbreak investigations of newly infected herds. These four activities were then used as hypothesized control measures in the simulation. In each simulation, the numbers of cattle infected persistently and transiently with BVDV detected by clinical manifestations and diagnosis tests and of missed by all of the diagnosis tests were calculated, and the numbers were used as indicators to be compared for the efficacy of the control measures. The model outputs indicated that the adoption of mass vaccination decreased the number of missed BVD cattle, although it did not increase the number of detected BVD cattle. Under implementation of mass vaccination, the efficacy of individual tests on selected 20% of the young and adult cattle was equal to that of the herd screening test performed in all the herds. When the virus prevalence or the number of sensitive animals becomes low, the efficacy of herd screening test was superior to one of individual tests. Considering the model outputs together, the scenario tree model developed in the present study was useful to compare the efficacy of the control measures for BVD.


pmid: 19857934
title: Atypical 'HoBi'-like pestiviruses--recent findings and implications thereof
abstract: In 2004, an atypical pestivirus named D32/00_'HoBi', isolated from foetal calf serum (FCS) originating from Brazil, was described (Schirrmeier et al., 2004). A few years later, a closely related virus (Th/04_KhonKaen) was detected in serum from a calf in Thailand, indicating that this group of atypical pestiviruses already is spread in cattle populations in various regions of the world. At the Friedrich-Loeffler-Institute, Insel Riems, Germany, FCS batches are regularly tested for pestivirus contamination, in general with positive PCR results, and in some cases the contaminants have been typed as 'HoBi'-like. At the National Veterinary Institute (SVA) in Uppsala, Sweden, a recent event with contaminated FCS ruined much of the ongoing cell culture work. From the FCS and the contaminated cells we were able to amplify and sequence nucleic acid from three different pestivirus strains, including BVDV-1, -2 and 'HoBi'-like; this in a commercial FCS that had been tested free from pestivirus by the manufacturer. In this short communication we review the current status of atypical 'HoBi'-like pestiviruses, describe recent findings and discuss the implications thereof.


pmid: 9807729
title: Acute pulmonary lesions in sheep experimentally infected with bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Six sheep, aged 6-8 months and seronegative for pestivirus, were inoculated intranasally, through the tracheal wall, and intrabronchially with a non-cytopathogenic isolate of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (ncpBVDV). Infected sheep were killed in pairs on post-inoculation day (PID) 2, 4 and 6. They all exhibited transient leucopenia or lymphopenia, or both. Platelet counts decreased but remained within normal limits. BVDV was isolated from buffy coats and tissues of all sheep inoculated with ncpBVDV but not from two uninfected control animals. Pulmonary lesions, evident in ncpBVDV-inoculated sheep, consisted of moderate oedema with multifocal alveolar septal necrosis and haemorrhage, infiltrates of mononuclear inflammatory cells, and degenerative changes in alveolar epithelium, endothelium and pulmonary intravascular macrophages. Additionally, there was morphological evidence of platelet activation and pulmonary intravascular macrophage stimulation. Lesions were not observed in the two control sheep.


pmid: 25613403
title: Antiviral properties from plants of the Mediterranean flora
abstract: Natural products are a successful source in drug discovery, playing a significant role in maintaining human health. We investigated the in vitro cytotoxicity and antiviral activity of extracts from 18 traditionally used Mediterranean plants. Noteworthy antiviral activity was found in the extract obtained from the branches of Daphne gnidium L. against human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (EC50 = 0.08 μg/mL) and coxsackievirus B5 (EC50 = 0.10 μg/mL). Other relevant activities were found against BVDV, YFV, Sb-1, RSV and HSV-1. Interestingly, extracts from Artemisia arborescens L. and Rubus ulmifolius Schott, as well as those from D. gnidium L., showed activities against two different viruses. This extensive antiviral screening allowed us to identify attractive activities, offering opportunities to develop lead compounds with a great pharmaceutical potential.


pmid: 7653884
title: Assessment of protection from systemic infection or disease afforded by low to intermediate titers of passively acquired neutralizing antibody against bovine viral diarrhea virus in calves
abstract: Colostrum-deprived calves (n = 24) were fed various amounts of colostrum, colostrum substitute, or milk replacer to establish a range in titer of passively acquired viral neutralizing antibody in serum. The calves were then challenge exposed intranasally with a virulent, noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV-890). After viral challenge exposure, calves were monitored for fever, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and diarrhea. In addition, viral isolation and viral titration were performed on specimens of nasal secretions, buffy coat cells, and serum obtained from the calves. Fever and systemic spread of virus were detected in calves that had viral neutralizing titer of 256 or lower. Calves that had viral neutralizing titer lower than 16 developed severe clinical disease manifested by fever, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and diarrhea. Severity and duration of signs of disease decreased as titers of passively acquired viral neutralizing antibody increased. These results indicate that low to intermediate titers of passively acquired viral neutralizing antibody were not sufficient to fully protect calves from virulent bovine viral diarrhea virus.


pmid: 17251029
title: Design, synthesis, and preliminary in vitro and in silico antiviral activity of [4,7]phenantrolines and 1-oxo-1,4-dihydro-[4,7]phenantrolines against single-stranded positive-sense RNA genome viruses
abstract: Following the antiviral screening of a wide series of new angular and linear N-tricyclic systems both in silico and in vitro, the [4,7]phenantroline nucleus emerged as a new ring system endowed with activity against viruses containing single-stranded, positive-sense RNA genomes (ssRNA+). Here, we report our new pathway to the synthesis of this nucleus and of several related derivatives, as well as the results of both cell-based antiviral assays and molecular dynamics simulations. In the antiviral screening, several compounds (9 and 16-20) showed to be fairly active against BVDV, CVB-2, and Polio 1 (EC50, 6-25 microM). According to molecular dynamics simulations, compounds (15) and (17) emerged for its potency against the HCV NS5B, with a calculated IC50 of 11-12 microM.


pmid: 34149296
title: Surfactants - Compounds for inactivation of SARS-CoV-2 and other enveloped viruses
abstract: We provide here a general view on the interactions of surfactants with viruses, with a particular emphasis on how such interactions can be controlled and employed for inhibiting the infectivity of enveloped viruses, including coronaviruses. The aim is to provide to interested scientists from different fields, including chemistry, physics, biochemistry, and medicine, an overview of the basic properties of surfactants and (corona)viruses, which are relevant to understanding the interactions between the two. Various types of interactions between surfactant and virus are important, and they act on different components of a virus such as the lipid envelope, membrane (envelope) proteins and nucleocapsid proteins. Accordingly, this cannot be a detailed account of all relevant aspects but instead a summary that bridges between the different disciplines. We describe concepts and cover a selection of the relevant literature as an incentive for diving deeper into the relevant material. Our focus is on more recent developments around the COVID-19 pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2, applications of surfactants against the virus, and on the potential future use of surfactants for pandemic relief. We also cover the most important aspects of the historical development of using surfactants in combatting virus infections. We conclude that surfactants are already playing very important roles in various directions of defence against viruses, either directly, as in disinfection, or as carrier components of drug delivery systems for prophylaxis or treatment. By designing tailor-made surfactants, and consequently, advanced formulations, one can expect more and more effective use of surfactants, either directly as antiviral compounds or as part of more complex formulations.


pmid: 26972273
title: Associations between exposure to viruses and bovine respiratory disease in Australian feedlot cattle
abstract: Bovine respiratory disease (BRD) is the most important cause of clinical disease and death in feedlot cattle. Respiratory viral infections are key components in predisposing cattle to the development of this disease. To quantify the contribution of four viruses commonly associated with BRD, a case-control study was conducted nested within the National Bovine Respiratory Disease Initiative project population in Australian feedlot cattle. Effects of exposure to Bovine viral diarrhoea virus 1 (BVDV-1), Bovine herpesvirus 1 (BoHV-1), Bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) and Bovine parainfluenza virus 3 (BPIV-3), and to combinations of these viruses, were investigated. Based on weighted seroprevalences at induction (when animals were enrolled and initial samples collected), the percentages of the project population estimated to be seropositive were 24% for BoHV-1, 69% for BVDV-1, 89% for BRSV and 91% for BPIV-3. For each of the four viruses, seropositivity at induction was associated with reduced risk of BRD (OR: 0.6-0.9), and seroincrease from induction to second blood sampling (35-60 days after induction) was associated with increased risk of BRD (OR: 1.3-1.5). Compared to animals that were seropositive for all four viruses at induction, animals were at progressively increased risk with increasing number of viruses for which they were seronegative; those seronegative for all four viruses were at greatest risk (OR: 2.4). Animals that seroincreased for one or more viruses from induction to second blood sampling were at increased risk (OR: 1.4-2.1) of BRD compared to animals that did not seroincrease for any viruses. Collectively these results confirm that prior exposure to these viruses is protective while exposure at or after feedlot entry increases the risk of development of BRD in feedlots. However, the modest increases in risk associated with seroincrease for each virus separately, and the progressive increases in risk with multiple viral exposures highlights the importance of concurrent infections in the aetiology of the BRD complex. These findings indicate that, while efficacious vaccines could aid in the control of BRD, vaccination against one of these viruses would not have large effects on population BRD incidence but vaccination against multiple viruses would be expected to result in greater reductions in incidence. The findings also confirm the multifactorial nature of BRD development, and indicate that multifaceted approaches in addition to efficacious vaccines against viruses will be required for substantial reductions in BRD incidence.


pmid: 31232526
title: Mycoplasma bovis and viral agents associated with the development of bovine respiratory disease in adult dairy cows
abstract: The etiology and pathologic findings of bovine respiratory disease (BRD) in adult dairy cows (n = 35) from a commercial dairy herd in Southern Brazil were investigated. Pulmonary samples were examined for histopathologic patterns and specific features within these patterns, while immunohistochemical (IHC) assays were designed to detect the intralesional antigens of viral infectious disease agents and Mycoplasma bovis. Pneumonia was diagnosed in 91.4% (32/35) of these cases; neither pneumonia nor any of the infectious disease pathogens evaluated occurred in three cows. The presence of multiple respiratory pathogens in 75% (24/32) of these cases indicated the complex origin of pneumonia in cattle. Interstitial pneumonia, necrosuppurative bronchopneumonia and suppurative bronchopneumonia were the principal patterns of pulmonary disease identified by histopathology. The most frequent pathogens identified by IHC were bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV; n = 18), M. bovis (n = 16) and bovine alphaherpesvirus type 1 (BoHV-1; n = 14), followed by bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV; n = 11) and bovine parainfluenza virus type 3 (BPIV-3; n = 5). Obliterative bronchiolitis and peribronchial lymphocytic cuffings were the characteristic histopathologic features associated with M. bovis. Necrohemorrhagic bronchitis with bronchial angiogenesis was associated with BoHV-1. Necrotizing bronchitis and bronchiolitis were associated with BVDV, BoHV-1 and BRSV. Ballooning degeneration of the bronchial and bronchiolar epithelia was associated with BRSV and BoHV-1. This is the first report from Brazil that correlated the histopathologic findings of BRD with the associated infectious disease agents by immunohistochemistry. M. bovis was frequently detected in the tissues of cows with fatal pulmonary disease during this study and may be a possible primary disease pathogen associated with the development of BRD in dairy cows. Additionally, the histopathologic features identified within patterns of pulmonary disease during this investigation may be an efficient diagnostic tool to associate histopathologic findings with specific agents of BRD in dairy cows.


pmid: 34241827
title: Severe outbreak of bovine neonatal diarrhea in a dairy calf rearing unit with multifactorial etiology
abstract: This study describes the etiological diversity observed in a severe neonatal diarrhea outbreak with morbidity and mortality rates of 80 and 20%, respectively, with detection of mixed infections with viral, bacterial, and protozoan disease agents in a dairy calf rearing unit. Diarrheic fecal samples were collected from eight 5 to 18 days of age calves and were submitted to the investigation of the presence of rotavirus A (RVA), bovine coronavirus (BCoV), bovine kobuvirus (BKV), bovine viral diarrhea virus 1 and 2 (BVDV-1 and BVDV-2), enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (ETEC), Salmonella sp., and Cryptosporidium spp. Fragments of the small intestine of one calf with diarrhea that spontaneously died were submitted for histopathological analyses. The most frequent infectious agent detected in diarrheic fecal samples was BKV (8/8-100%), followed by RVA (5/8-62.5%), BVDV (5/8-62.5%), Cryptosporidium parvum (5/8-62.5%), ETEC (4/8-50%), and Cryptosporidium ryanae (1/8-12.5%). These etiological agents were found in mixed infections with two or more pathogens per diarrheic fecal sample. The association of viral and protozoan pathogens was the most frequently identified (37.5%) in these samples, followed by viral and bacterial (25%); viral, bacterial, and protozoan (25%); and only viral agents (12.5%). BCoV and Salmonella sp. were not identified in the diarrheic fecal samples analyzed. Additionally, histopathology of the small intestine diagnosed chronic lymphocytic enteritis. In conclusion, in calf rearing units, the adoption and strict monitoring of health management practices are critical to the success of this calf creation system.


pmid: 27033527
title: Seroprevalence study of the main causes of abortion in dairy cattle in Morocco
abstract: Sera from 221 cattle were collected in 25 farms in Morocco to investigate the evidence and circulation of some of the main bovine abortive agents in the dairy cattle farming, where abortions are often reported. All sera were examined for brucellosis, 176 for neosporosis, 88 for leptospirosis, and 42 for Bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD/MD), Bovine Herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1) (Infectious bovine rhinotracheitis, IBR/IPV), and Bovine Herpesvirus 4 (BHV-4) infections (at least 1 sample per herd). Abortions were reported in 23 (10.4%) of the 221 tested cattle. Antibodies against the investigated pathogens were detected in all samples tested, with an overall seroprevalence of 33.48% for Brucella, 9.09% for Leptospira, 8.52% for Neospora, 37.71% for BVDV, 50% for BHV-1, 9.52% for BHV-4. As for Leptospira antibodies against serovars Hardjo, Pomona, and Tarassovi were identified. Mixed infections were common. The lack of evidence of non-infectious factors epidemiologically related to abortions suggested that the investigated agents are to be considered important risk factors in the dynamic of the abortion syndrome, even if further investigations are necessary to identify the abortion cause. Particular attention should be paid on brucellosis, considering the high seroprevalence and its zoonotic relevance.


pmid: 16236375
title: Molecular epidemiology of bovine viral diarrhoea during the final phase of the Swedish BVD-eradication programme
abstract: The Swedish BVD-eradication programme has been successfully running since 1993 and is now in its final phase. Nevertheless, new infections are occasionally being detected. In this paper we describe the first results of a programme where we apply a molecular-epidemiological approach to trace sources and routes of BVDV infection, and that we expect will speed up the final phase of the BVD-programme and help to reach total eradication.


pmid: 33543911
title: Serological evidence of Coxiella burnetii, Leptospira interrogans Hardjo, Neospora caninum and bovine pestivirus infections in a dairy cattle herd from the United Arab Emirates
abstract: The serostatus of five abortigenic agents and the association between abortion history and Coxiella burnetii seropositivity were assessed in 350 dairy cattle from Al Ain, UAE. The bovine sera were ELISA-screened for C. burnetii, Leptospira Hardjo, Neospora caninum, and Brucella abortus antibodies, plus bovine pestivirus (BVDV) antigen. The serology data were collated and the level of significance between the proportions of C. burnetii-seropositive cattle with and without abortion history assessed by the Z test of two proportions. Of the 350 cattle, 41.4%, 1.7%, 1.4%, 0.3%, and 0.0% were seropositive to the above pathogens, respectively. Besides, 61.9%, 2.9%, 1.0%, 0.0%, and 0.0% of the 105 cattle with history of abortion and 32.7%, 1.2%, 1.6%, 0.0% and 0.0% of the 245 seropositive cattle with no history of abortion were also seropositive for the above pathogens respectively. Moreover, the proportion of C. burnetii-seropositive cattle with history of abortion were significantly higher than the C. burnetii-seropositive ones without abortion history (p-value < 0.01). Apparent C. burnetii infections were relatively higher than the other four pathogens suggesting this bacterium contributed to abortion in the herd. Additional research on the public and bovine health implications of C. burnetii and Leptospira in the UAE are urgently needed.


pmid: 34452520
title: Identification of a Common Conformational Epitope on the Glycoprotein E2 of Classical Swine Fever Virus and Border Disease Virus
abstract: Classical swine fever virus (CSFV) shares high structural and antigenic homology with bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) and border disease virus (BDV). Because all three viruses can infect swine and elicit cross-reactive antibodies, it is necessary to differentiate among them with regard to serological diagnosis of classical swine fever. To understand the mechanism of cross-reactivity, it is important to define common or specific epitopes of these viruses. For this purpose, epitope mapping of six monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) was performed using recombinant expressed antigenic domains of CSFV and BDV E2 proteins. One CSFV-specific conformational epitope and one CSFV and BDV common epitope within domain B/C of E2 were identified. Site-directed mutagenesis confirmed that residues G725 and V738/I738 of the CSFV-specific epitope and P709/L709 and E713 of the second epitope are important for mAbs binding. Infection of CSFV in porcine cells was significantly reduced after pre-incubation of the cells with the domain B/C of E2 or after pre-incubation of CSFV with the mAbs detecting domain B/C. 3D structural modeling suggested that both epitopes are exposed on the surface of E2. Based on this, the identified epitopes represent a potential target for virus neutralization and might be involved in the early steps of CSFV infection.


pmid: 32142980
title: Evaluation of an investigative model in dairy herds with high calf perinatal mortality rates in Switzerland
abstract: The objective of this study was to evaluate an investigative model which encompassed the risk factors, incidence, timing and causes of perinatal mortality (PM) (0-48 h) on high risk dairy farms (PM of >5% in the previous year) in Switzerland. This pilot-study was carried out on 47 predominantly Holstein PM calves from 21 dairy farms, between September 2016 and January 2018. Gross pathological examinations of calves and placentae as well as histopathological examinations of internal organs and placental tissue were performed. Further investigations included microbiological examinations: broad-spectrum bacterial and fungal culture, detection of Chlamydia abortus, Coxiella burnetii, pathogenic Leptospira spp. and Neospora caninum by real-time PCR (qPCR) and of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) by Ag-ELISA. Maternal blood samples were used for serology of bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV-1), Brucella abortus, Chlamydia abortus, Coxiella burnetii and nine pathogenic leptospiral serovars and the evaluation of trace element status. A questionnaire was completed with the farmer, which included general farm characteristics and case-related data. Inbreeding coefficients (IC) were calculated for pure-bred matings. At the farm-level, the PM rate was 10.0% (5.3-28.2%) and at the cow-level, 11.5%. These values, from high-risk farms, were approximately five-times higher than the contemporary national bovine PM rate (2.3%) in Switzerland. The risk factors associated with these high PM rates were the self-selection of high risk herds, the high proportion of primiparae in these herds (45%) and the evidence of widespread pathogenic infections on these farms (exposure: 67% of herds, 53% of dams; infection: 57% of herds, 45% of calves). The majority (68.1%) of calves died intrapartum. The most commonly diagnosed initiating/ultimate cause of death (UCOD) was infection (34%) of which Coxiella burnetii was the most frequently detected pathogen, by antigen. The most frequently diagnosed proximate cause of death (PCOD) was asphyxia (44.7%), though multiple PCOD was also common (21.3%). This study was the first detailed investigation of bovine PM in Switzerland. Infectious causes were diagnosed more frequently than expected. While the findings from these high PM Swiss herds may have limited external validity, the investigative model adopted and the detailed research methodologies employed can be replicated and re-evaluated, respectively, in future studies on PM internationally.


pmid: 34879119
title: A double deletion prevents replication of the pestivirus bovine viral diarrhea virus in the placenta of pregnant heifers
abstract: In contrast to wild type bovine viral diarhea virus (BVDV) specific double deletion mutants are not able to establish persistent infection upon infection of a pregnant heifer. Our data shows that this finding results from a defect in transfer of the virus from the mother animal to the fetus. Pregnant heifers were inoculated with such a double deletion mutant or the parental wild type virus and slaughtered pairwise on days 6, 9, 10 and 13 post infection. Viral RNA was detected via qRT-PCR and RNAscope analyses in maternal tissues for both viruses from day 6 p.i. on. However, the double deletion mutant was not detected in placenta and was only found in samples from animals infected with the wild type virus. Similarly, high levels of wild type viral RNA were present in fetal tissues whereas the genome of the double deletion mutant was not detected supporting the hypothesis of a specific inhibition of mutant virus replication in the placenta. We compared the induction of gene expression upon infection of placenta derived cell lines with wild type and mutant virus via gene array analysis. Genes important for the innate immune response were strongly upregulated by the mutant virus compared to the wild type in caruncle epithelial cells that establish the cell layer on the maternal side at the maternal-fetal interface in the placenta. Also, trophoblasts which can be found on the fetal side of the interface showed significant induction of gene expression upon infection with the mutant virus although with lower complexity. Growth curves recorded in both cell lines revealed a general reduction of virus replication in caruncular epithelial cells compared to the trophoblasts. Compared to the wild type virus this effect was dramtic for the mutant virus that reached only a TCID50 of 1.0 at 72 hours post infection.


pmid: 11392987
title: [Integrated disease control in dairy herds. A case study from the veterinarians' viewpoint]
abstract: Integrated control of bovine virus diarrhoea virus, bovine herpesvirus-1, Leptospira interrogans serovar hardjo subtype hardjobovis, Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis, and Salmonella dublin in dairy herds may provide economic benefits superior to those obtained by sequential disease control, because, among other things, it allows optimization of voluntary culling. However, in practice there are no adequate instruments to establish priorities in voluntary culling. Therefore, in this study the priorities in decision-making for voluntary culling of infected cattle, as indicated by more than 300 cattle veterinarians, were analysed. Based on our results and supplementary considerations, the priorities for voluntary culling in the Netherlands can be ranked as: 1st. cull S. dublin carriers, 2nd. cull persistently infected BVDV carriers, 3rd. cull paratuberculosis faecal culture positive cattle and their last offspring, 4th. cull, in paratuberculosis infected herds, paratuberculosis ELISA positive cattle and their last offspring and cull, in low prevalence herds, BHV1 gE-positive cattle, and 5th. cull leptospirosis seropositive cattle. Since this ranking was based on one case study only, other priorities may prevail in other herds.


pmid: 10028179
title: Bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) infections--control and eradication programme in breeding herds in Slovenia
abstract: A Slovenian BVD control and eradication programme was initiated in 1994, and the results from testing of bovine herds for antigen and antibodies in 1996 are presented. Samples originating from breeding herds, breeding herds for young bulls, and insemination stations were tested by antigen or antibody ELISA, or by PCR. Out of 7968 samples from 354 herds we found 18% of the animals antibody-positive. In one region situated in the north-east of Slovenia we found the herds to be almost nearly free of BVDV infections (5% prevalence). No positive antigen ELISA findings were done in 374 blood samples from recruitment herds for young bulls, whereas two out of 206 sera were investigated by PCR-reacted positive. The differences in seroprevalence found between regions is thought to be caused by differences in summer pasturing and husbandry practices.


pmid: 22795973
title: Classical swine fever virus NS5A regulates viral RNA replication through binding to NS5B and 3'UTR
abstract: In this report, classical swine fever virus (CSFV) NS5A inhibit viral RNA replication when its concentration reached and surpassed the level of NS5B. Three amino acid fragments of CSFV NS5A, 137-172, 224-268 and 390-414 individually were shown to be essential to NS5B binding. The former two fragments were independently necessary for regulation of viral RNA replication and correlated with NS5B and 3'UTR binding activity. We also found that amino acids W143, V145, P227, T246, P257, K399, T401, E406 and L413 of CSFV NS5A were essential to NS5B binding activity. Furthermore, these amino acids were shown to be necessary for viral RNA replication and infection and conserved in NS5A proteins of CSFV, BDV, BVDV and HCV. These results indicated that NS5A may regulate viral RNA replication by binding to NS5B and 3'UTR. NS5A can still regulate viral RNA synthesis through binding to 3'UTR when binding to NS5B is not available.


pmid: 17644406
title: Characterizing clearance of helper adenovirus by a clinical rAAV1 manufacturing process
abstract: Recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors (rAAV) are being developed as gene therapy delivery vehicles and as genetic vaccines, and some of the most scaleable manufacturing methods for rAAV use live adenovirus to induce production. One aspect of establishing safety of rAAV products is therefore demonstrating adequate and reliable clearance of this helper virus by the vector purification process. The ICH Q5A regulatory guidance on viral safety provides recommendations for process design and characterization of viral clearance for recombinant proteins, and these principles were adapted to a rAAV serotype 1 purification process for clinical vectors. Specific objectives were to achieve overall adenovirus clearance factors significantly greater than input levels by using orthogonal separation and inactivation methods, and to segregate adenovirus from downstream operations by positioning a robust clearance step early in the process. Analytical tools for process development and characterization addressed problematic in-process samples, and a viral clearance validation study was performed using adenovirus and two non-specific model viruses. Overall clearance factors determined were >23 LRV for adenovirus, 11 LRV for BVDV, and >23 LRV for AMuLV.


pmid: 9657953
title: Genome instability in BVDV: an examination of the sequence and structural influences on RNA recombination
abstract: The cytopathogenic biotype of the pestivirus, bovine viral diarrhea virus, is frequently a product of nonhomologous recombination in the region of the genome encoding the viral NS2-NS3 proteins. The possibility that sequences or structures in this region contributed to a hotspot for RNA recombination was examined. A PCR-based strategy was used to examine viral genomic RNA isolated from tissue samples of cattle persistently infected with the noncytopathogenic biotype of the virus. Analysis of two different regions of the viral genome revealed that recombination was not restricted to particular sequences. Alignment of the genomic sequences undergoing recombination and examination of the predicted secondary structures of the participating RNAs revealed that the dissociation of partial, newly synthesized negative strand RNAs from the positive strand template occurred at many different sites on the molecule. Similarly, it appeared that the reassociation of the RNA polymerase complex with a second positive strand template was frequently influenced by short regions of homology between the nascent RNA strand and open secondary structures in the template molecule.


pmid: 11535286
title: An economic model for on-farm decision support of management to prevent infectious disease introduction into dairy farms
abstract: A more-closed farming system can be a good starting point for eradication of infectious diseases from within a herd. The economic implications of a more-closed farming system will not always be obvious to farmers. The management decisions are related to different parts of the farm and are farm-specific. To support these decisions, a model was developed of the economic consequences of a more-closed system (a simple static and deterministic design was used). The risk factors in the model were based solely on bovine herpesvirus type 1 (BHV1) but losses due to introduction of BVDV, L. hardjo, and S. dublin were added to the model. The model was verified and partly validated and a sensitivity analysis was done. The cost to one 55-cow dairy farm that refrained from purchasing cattle, provided protective clothing to professional visitors and a temporary employee, and built and maintained a double fence around 6 ha of land to prevent over-the-fence contacts was Dfl. 4495 over 5 years. The probability of disease introduction was decreased by 74%. The prevented losses for disease introduction amounted to Dfl. 7033 over 5 years (net benefits of Dfl. 2538 over 5 years).A more-closed system would be still beneficial when a sanitary barrier was used instead of just protective clothing, when the probability of introduction of infectious diseases was decreased, and when odds ratios in the model were replaced by more-conservative relative risks. The benefits became negative when a farm had to build and maintain a double fence around 12 ha instead of 6 ha, when the probability of introduction of all diseases was decreased by 50%, and when the estimations were based solely on BHV1.


pmid: 1381537
title: Epitope mapping of the gp53 envelope protein of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Epitopes recognized by nine monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) on the envelope protein, gp53, of two strains of bovine viral diarrhoea virus (NADL and Oregon C24V) were mapped by competitive binding assays and by the characterization and sequence analyses of mAb neutralization escape mutants. This defined an antigenic domain on gp53 that was shared by many BVDV strains, while other less conserved epitopes were possibly distinct. Sequencing of escape mutant viruses revealed that a cluster of three amino acids in the N-terminal half of gp53 were involved in the main antigenic domain shared by both NADL and Oregon C24V viruses, while an amino acid 31 residues further toward the N-terminus was involved in a second site present only on the NADL strain. Since other amino acids defining these epitopes were located at distant positions within the gp53 protein, it is likely that a major domain [corrected] on gp53 consist of composite, conformation-dependent epitopes.


pmid: 14698672
title: An adenine-to-guanine nucleotide change in the IRES SL-IV domain of picornavirus/hepatitis C chimeric viruses leads to a nonviable phenotype
abstract: The inability for the internal ribosomal entry site (IRES) of hepatitis C virus (HCV) to be readily studied in the context of viral replication has been circumvented by constructing chimeras such as with poliovirus (PV), in which translation of the genome polyprotein is under control of the HCV IRES. During our attempts to configure the PV/HCV chimera for our drug discovery efforts, we discovered that an adenine- (A) to-guanine (G) change at nt 350 in domain IV of the HCV IRES resulted in a nonviable phenotype. Similarly, a mengovirus (MV)/HCV chimera using the same configuration with a G at nt 350 (G-350) was found to be nonviable. In contrast, a bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)/HCV chimera remained viable with G-350 in the HCV IRES insert. Second-site, resuscitating mutations were identified from the G-350 PV/HCV and MV/HCV viruses after blind passaging. For both viruses, the resuscitating mutations involved destabilization of domain IV in the HCV IRES. The nonviability of G-350 in the picornavirus/HCV chimeric background might be linked to translation efficiency as indicated by analyses with dual reporter and PV/HCV replicon constructs.


pmid: 24999080
title: Virus removal capacity at varying ionic strength during nanofiltration of AlphaNine® SD
abstract: Nanofiltration is incorporated into the manufacturing processes of many protein biopharmaceuticals to enhance safety by providing the capacity to retain pathogens while allowing protein drugs to pass through the filter. Retention is mainly a function of size; however, the shape of the pathogen may also influence retention. The ability of the Viresolve(®) Pro nanofilter to remove different sized viruses during the manufacture of a Coagulation Factor IX (Alphanine(®) SD) was studied at varying ionic strength, a process condition with the potential to affect virus shape and, hence, virus retention. Eight viruses were tested in a scale-down of the nanofiltration process. Five of the viruses (EMCV, Reo, BVDV, HIV, PRV) were nanofiltered at normal sodium processing conditions and three (PPV, HAV and WNV) were nanofiltered at higher and lower sodium. Representative Reduction Factors for all viruses were ≥4.50 logs and removal was consistent over a wide range of ionic strength.


pmid: 18063227
title: New 1-indanone thiosemicarbazone derivatives active against BVDV
abstract: Identification of new therapeutic agents for the treatment of viral diseases represents an area of active investigation. In an effort to develop new antiviral compounds, a series of 1-indanone thiosemicarbazone derivatives were synthesized. These derivatives were structurally characterized using several spectroscopic techniques and evaluated against bovine viral diarrhoea virus as a surrogate model for hepatitis C virus. Thiosemicarbazone 2m showed potent anti-bovine viral diarrhoea virus activity with a higher selectivity index (SI=80.29) than that of ribavirin (SI=11.64). This result determines the potentiality of these thiosemicarbazones as antiviral agents for the treatment of infections caused by other highly related members of Flaviviridae family, as hepatitis C virus.


pmid: 17284432
title: [Transgenic wheat expressing virus-derived hairpin RNA is resistant to Barley yellow dwarf virus]
abstract: An expression vector expected to induce RNA interference against Barley yellow dwarf virus (BYDV), which expressed a composite hpRNA with the dsRNA stem homologous of BYDV GPV replicase gene and the antisense RNA loop homologous of coat protein gene, was designed without marker gene. The vector was transferred into callus cells from wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) immature embryos by particle bombardment. To select the positive transformants as early as possible, a rapid PCR, which does not need extract wheat DNA instead of few leaves, was used at regeneration stage of plantlets. Totally 21 plants proved to contain alien sequence. Antivirus test with high dose infected virus revealed that, 9 plants showed low level of resistance to BVDV, 6 plants showed moderate resistance and 6 plants showed high level of resistance. Interestingly, both low and moderate levels of resistance plants were no symptoms when infected by viruses at low dose. It suggests the dose- dependent effect of the resistance mediated by hpRNA to BYDV-GPV.


pmid: 7688508
title: Characterization of structural and non-structural proteins of hog cholera virus by means of monoclonal antibodies
abstract: A panel of 15 monoclonal antibodies, produced against the hog cholera virus, were characterized by radioimmunoprecipitation assays. Using this panel, we were able to identify 4 sets of monoclonal antibodies precipitating each a different viral protein with relative molecular weight of 40, 46, 120 kDa, respectively, and a protein complex containing 15, 16, 27, and 55 kDa polypeptides which were further characterized. One monoclonal antibody recognized an antigenic determinant at the C-terminal cleavage product of the non-structural p 125 of BVDV. The 40 kDa protein was precipitated from the pelleted virions, indicating its structural importance. On the contrary the 46 kDa protein could only be precipitated from the cell lysate and not from the pelleted virions. The glycosylated 15/16 kDa-55 kDa proteins form a disulfide linked heterodimer on the virus particle with a relative molecular weight of 65 kDa.


pmid: 21955447
title: Experimental infection of cattle, sheep and pigs with 'Hobi'-like pestivirus
abstract: To date, limited information is available on the ability of 'Hobi'-like pestiviruses (putative bovine viral diarrhoea 3) to infect and cause disease in animal species traditionally affected by pestiviruses. In order to obtain new insights into host range and pathogenic potential of this atypical pestivirus, BVDV-seronegative calves (n=5), lambs (n=5) and piglets (n=5) were experimentally infected with the European 'Hobi'-like strain Italy-1/10-1, whereas two animals per species served as uninfected controls. Appearance of clinical signs, leukopenia, viremia, viral shedding and seroconversion were monitored for 28 days post-infection. Calves and lambs were successfully infected, displaying respiratory signs (nasal discharge), moderate hyperthermia and leukopenia, viremia and viral shedding through the nasal and faecal routes. Antibody responses were observed in both animal species by ELISA and virus neutralisation assays. In contrast, inoculated piglets did not display any clinical signs nor leukopenia and viral RNA was not detected in any biological samples. Nevertheless, the presence of detectable antibodies by virus neutralisation accounted for a successful, albeit limited infection of these animals.


pmid: 9340263
title: [Comparison of different BVD virus strains for their use in the differential diagnosis of classical swine fever--an attempt to standardize neutralization tests]
abstract: Six bovine virus diarrhoea (BVD) virus strains were tested in the neutralization test for their use in the differential diagnosis in classical swine fever (CSF) serology. The aim of the investigation was to find a suitable BVD virus strain guaranteeing a safe differentiation of CSF- and BVD virus induced antibodies using permanent cell cultures (PK-15, MDBK). For test purposes the neutralizing antibody titres of 73 defined test sera were titrated against the CSF virus strain Alfort/187 as well as the BVD virus strains Grub, Paplitz, NADL, 1138/69, Stendal, 10421/Han 94). Tests were repeated fivefold. The level of mean antibody titres, the differences in titre to the homologous pestivirus strain, the standard deviation and the variation coefficient served as test criteria. The BVD virus strains Grub and NADL yielded the best results. In view of harmonization and standardization the BVD virus strain NADL in connection with a standard protocol for neutralization tests is recommended for the differential diagnosis in CSF serology. Due to the adaptation of the permanent cell-lines PK-15 and MDBK to horse serum a further source of contamination with non cytopathogenic BVD viruses under routine conditions can be excluded.


pmid: 35230426
title: Effects of maternal winter vs. year-round supplementation of protein and energy on postnatal growth, immune function, and carcass characteristics of Bos indicus-influenced beef offspring
abstract: This 2-yr study evaluated the effects of winter vs. year-round supplementation of Bos indicus-influenced beef cows on cow reproductive performance and impact on their offspring. On day 0 of each year (approximately day 122 ± 23 of gestation), 82 to 84 mature Brangus cows/yr were stratified by body weight (BW; 475 ± 67 kg) and body condition score (BCS; 4.85 ± 0.73) and randomly assigned to 1 of 6 bahiagrass (Paspalum notatum) pastures (13 to 14 cows/pasture). Treatments were randomly assigned to pastures consisting of winter supplementation with molasses + urea (WMOL), or year-round supplementation with molasses + urea (YMOL) or wheat middling-based range cubes (YCUB). Total yearly supplement DM amount was 272 kg/cow and supplements were formulated to be isocaloric and isonitrogenous (75% TDN and 20% CP). On day 421 (weaning; approximately 260 ± 24 d of age), 33 to 35 steers/yr were vaccinated against parainfluenza-3 (PI3) and bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 (BVDV-1) and transported 1,193 km to a feedlot. Steers were penned according to maternal pasture and managed similarly until slaughter. Data were analyzed using the MIXED and GLIMMIX procedures of SAS. On day 217 (start of breeding season), BCS was greater (P = 0.01) for YMOL than WMOL cows, whereas BCS of YCUB did not differ (P ≥ 0.11) to both WMOL and YMOL cows. The percentage of cows that calved, calving date, birth BW, and preweaning BW of the first offspring did not differ (P ≥ 0.22) among maternal treatments. Plasma cortisol concentrations were greater (P ≤ 0.001) for YCUB steers at feedlot arrival (day 422) than WMOL and YMOL steers. Moreover, YCUB steers had greater (P = 0.02) and tended (P = 0.08) to have greater plasma concentrations of haptoglobin compared to WMOL and YMOL steers, respectively. Antibody titers against PI3 and BVDV-1 viruses did not differ (P ≥ 0.25) among maternal treatments. Steer BW at feedlot exit was greater (P ≤ 0.05) for YMOL and WMOL than YCUB steers. However, feedlot DMI did not differ (P ≥ 0.37) by maternal treatment. Hot carcass weight, yield grade, LMA, and marbling did not differ (P ≥ 0.14) among maternal treatments. Percentage of steers that graded low choice was enhanced (P ≤ 0.05) for WMOL and YCUB than YMOL steers. Maternal year-round supplementation of range cubes or molasses + urea either did not impact or decrease growth, immune function, and carcass characteristics of the offspring when compared with maternal supplementation of molasses + urea during winter only.


pmid: 11557153
title: Classical swine fever (CSF) marker vaccine. Trial III. Evaluation of discriminatory ELISAs
abstract: The objective of the marker vaccine trial was to test the two available CSF marker vaccines in scenarios which are likely to occur in the field and to evaluate the reliability of the discriminatory tests. The evaluation of the discriminatory tests was of special importance because there is no requirement for formal data concerning their performance by the European Medicinal Products Evaluation Agency (EMEA) in London. EMEA is responsible for the licensing procedure of the marker vaccines within the EU. Sixteen National Swine Fever Laboratories (NSFL) participated in testing the discriminatory ELISAs. They were tested for sensitivity, specificity, reproducibility and practicability. Reference sera (CSFV and BVDV antibody positive) and field sera were used as well as sera from the weaner and sow experiments produced during the marker vaccine trial. Both discriminatory ELISAs were less sensitive than conventional CSF antibody ELISAs, although there was considerable variation between them. One discriminatory ELISA was less specific than the other, but more sensitive, and vice versa. Neither discriminatory ELISA consistently detected the marker-vaccinated, CSF-challenged weaner pigs correctly as 'CSF positive', although CSF-challenged pregnant sows were identified correctly. The limitations of the discriminatory ELISAs used in the trial was the major factor that would prevent the use of these two marker vaccines under emergency field conditions.


pmid: 9237350
title: The use of bovine MHC class I allele-specific peptide motifs and proteolytic cleavage specificities for the prediction of potential cytotoxic T lymphocyte epitopes of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Cell mediated immunity (CMI) is crucial for the defense against viruses. Cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) play a major role in CMI. They recognize endogenous antigenic peptides presented by antigen presenting cells in association with the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules. The elucidation of the sequence of CTL epitopes of viruses should help in designing better vaccines. In this study, we have identified candidate epitopes restricted by five bovine MHC class I molecules that are potentially available for presentation to CTLs. The candidate peptide epitopes were identified by using the computer programs available as a part of the Genetics Computer Group package and applying the information on allele-specific peptide motifs and intracellular enzymatic cleavage patterns to the bovine viral diarrhea virus polyprotein. Several candidate peptides were found for each of the bovine lymphocyte antigens (BoLA)-A11, -A20, -HD1, and -HD6 whereas no peptide was found for BoLA-HD7. Based on this finding, the probable contribution of genomic segments of BVDV to the CTL response and strategies for recombinant vaccines are discussed.


pmid: 20960285
title: A novel RT-LAMP assay for rapid and simple detection of classical swine fever virus
abstract: A simple and rapid assay for the detection of Classical swine fever virus (CSFV) was established using reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP). This study describes the amplification of the genomic RNA of CSFV under isothermal conditions (63 °C) within one hour, using a set of six primers (two outer primers, two inner primers and two loop primers). This RT-LAMP assay showed 100-fold higher sensitivity than the standard RT-PCR method and identified eighteen additional positive cases that were negative when tested by RT-PCR. This RT-LAMP was able to detect all the 13 strains of CSFV but not the BVDV. PRRSV. SIV. PRV-PCV, thus showed a good specificity. Products amplified by RT-LAMP can be visualized by agarose gel electrophoresis and in addition, either as a white precipitate at the bottom of the tube after a pulse spin or as a color change when dyed with SYBR Green I which are visible to the naked eye. Because RT-LAMP is low-cost and produces rapid results, it has the potential to be an excellent tool for CSFV surveillance in the field, especially in developing countries.


pmid: 18538608
title: [Solvent-detergent viral inactivation of minipools of plasma for transfusion, cryoprecipitate and cryo-poor plasma in single-use bag systems]
abstract: Non-virally inactivated plasma, cryoprecipitate and cryoprecipitate-poor plasma, prepared by blood establishments, are still used in many countries in the world, in both the developing world and industrialized countries, for the treatment of various hematological disorders. In the absence of viral inactivation treatment, these fractions may be involved, in spite of increasingly sensitive viral detection methods, into the transmission of plasma-borne viruses, most critically HIV and Hepatitis B (HBV) or C (HCV). We have adapted the well-established industrial solvent-detergent (SD) viral inactivation treatment to allow its application in a small scale using a single-use plastic bag system. The procedure can be used by blood establishments, without the need to build an industrial-scale manufacturing facility. Results show a good recovery of the functional activity of plasma proteins, including coagulation factors (such as factor VIII and coagulable fibrinogen) and/or protease inhibitors (such as alpha 2-antiplasmin). Viral validation studies revealed reduction factors greater than 4.17, greater than 4.73 and greater than 4.72 for HIV, BVDV and PRV, respectively, within a few minutes of treatment. A single-use SD treatment and SD-elimination system is currently under development to allow standardized use of the procedure by blood establishments or national or regional service centers.


pmid: 18033802
title: RNA chaperoning and intrinsic disorder in the core proteins of Flaviviridae
abstract: RNA chaperone proteins are essential partners of RNA in living organisms and viruses. They are thought to assist in the correct folding and structural rearrangements of RNA molecules by resolving misfolded RNA species in an ATP-independent manner. RNA chaperoning is probably an entropy-driven process, mediated by the coupled binding and folding of intrinsically disordered protein regions and the kinetically trapped RNA. Previously, we have shown that the core protein of hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a potent RNA chaperone that can drive profound structural modifications of HCV RNA in vitro. We now examined the RNA chaperone activity and the disordered nature of core proteins from different Flaviviridae genera, namely that of HCV, GBV-B (GB virus B), WNV (West Nile virus) and BVDV (bovine viral diarrhoea virus). Despite low-sequence similarities, all four proteins demonstrated general nucleic acid annealing and RNA chaperone activities. Furthermore, heat resistance of core proteins, as well as far-UV circular dichroism spectroscopy suggested that a well-defined 3D protein structure is not necessary for core-induced RNA structural rearrangements. These data provide evidence that RNA chaperoning-possibly mediated by intrinsically disordered protein segments-is conserved in Flaviviridae core proteins. Thus, besides nucleocapsid formation, core proteins may function in RNA structural rearrangements taking place during virus replication.


pmid: 15066720
title: Genetic typing of bovine viral diarrhoea virus: most Slovenian isolates are of genotypes 1d and 1f
abstract: A selection of 43 bovine viral diarrhoea viruses isolated from mainly persistently infected cattle on 23 Slovenian farms between 1997 and 2001 were characterised genetically. Viral RNA was extracted from infected cell cultures, reverse transcribed and amplified by PCR with primers targeting the 5'-UTR and the N(pro) gene, followed by direct sequencing of purified PCR products obtained for both genomic regions. The N(pro) sequences provided the best genetic resolution, and gave also higher statistical support for phylogenetic classification of the viruses. Thirty-eight of the Slovenian isolates were of genetic subtypes 1d and 1f, four were 1b, and one subtype 1g. No BVDV type 2 viruses were found. This genetic prevalence matched those previously reported for neighbouring countries, as opposed to findings reported for more distant European countries, e.g. France, Spain and the UK. From eight cattle herds several virus isolates were analysed; with one exception all isolates from each herd were of the same genetic group. Extended sequencing of the N(pro) and part of the C gene of virus isolates with identical 5'-UTR sequences allowed differentiation between isolates obtained at different times from one herd.


pmid: 12002642
title: Predictive values of serum and bulk milk sampling for the presence of persistently infected BVDV carriers in dairy herds
abstract: The aim of this study was to examine whether it is possible to predict the presence of persistently infected (PI) animals with bovine viral diarrhoea virus on dairy farms in The Netherlands, based on a few blood samples of the herd, possibly in combination with a bulk milk test for antibodies. In 25 herds with, and 24 herds without, PI animal(s) the probabilities of obtaining at least x antibody positive animals out of a sample of n animals were calculated, with n varying from 3 to 7 and values for x that were considered were n, n - 1 to n - x. This probability, among animals 9-24 months old, ranged from 0.70 to 0.96 for herds with PI animals and from 0.13 to 0.37 for herds without. Using the result of bulk milk testing in addition did not add to the prediction. It was concluded that, due to the high percentage and large variation of antibody positive animals in herds without PI animals, it is not possible to predict the presence of PI animal(s) in dairy herds in The Netherlands using these methods.


pmid: 23687109
title: Eradication of BVDV in cattle: the Norwegian project
abstract: The intention of this collaborative project was eradication of pestivirus from the Norwegian cattle population of about 30,000 dairy and beef herds, primarily by identification and culling of persistently infected (PI) animals. Testing was performed in four tiers, with examination for pestivirus antibodies by indirect ELISA in (1) bulk milk, (2) pooled milk from primiparous dairy cows and (3) pooled blood from young stock. The herds positive in the third tier were examined for pestivirus antigen in blood from all antibody-negative individuals by -antigen-capture ELISA, and these animal composed tier (4). Following culling of the PI animals, a herd was considered free from pestivirus when pooled blood from young stock was antibody-negative on two sampling occasions three months apart. Number of herds with PI animals peaked at about 3000 (10 per cent) in the 2nd project year, then decreased steadily; only three herds (0.01 per cent) contained PI animals 10 years later. Solid, continuous information flow to all relevant partners was crucial to project success. The project saved losses of between 50 million and 200 million Norwegian crowns (NOK) annually (approximately 4.5 million to 18 million GBP). Project running costs for 10 years were 52.4 million NOK. Following project completion, surveillance of the Norwegian cattle population for pestivirus has continued.


pmid: 3261471
title: In situ characterization of mononuclear leukocytes in skin and digestive tract of persistently bovine viral diarrhea virus-infected clinically healthy calves and calves with mucosal disease
abstract: The phenotypic identity of mononuclear leukocytes in skin and digestive tract of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)-infected animals was examined using sensitive single and double labeling immunocytochemical techniques. Occurrence and distribution of B lymphocytes, T lymphocytes of either the helper (BoT4) or suppressor/cytotoxic (BoT8) subsets, and macrophages (M phi) were examined. No differences were found in the skin and digestive tract of persistently infected clinically healthy calves and uninfected controls, despite widespread virus-antigen presence in keratinocytes (stratum basale and stratum spinosum) of skin and upper digestive tract, in dermal/subepithelial macrophages (M phi), in gut-epithelial cells, and in lymphocytes and M phi/monocytes of blood and lymphoid tissues of the former group. M phi and Langerhans cells (LC) were the prevailing leukocyte types in the keratinized epithelia and subepithelial connective tissues, with occasional T lymphocytes (mostly intraepithelially located and of the BoT8 phenotype). No B cells were seen. Some infiltrating leukocytes also contained virus antigen. In animals succumbing to mucosal disease (MD), hyper- and parakeratotic changes, as well as necrotizing epithelial lesions, were accompanied by massive infiltration in dermis and epithelium of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II antigen positive cells (M phi and LC), some T lymphocytes (predominantly BoT8 positive cells), and, only rarely, B cells. M phi also predominated in lamina propria of the gastrointestinal tract. Findings suggest that M phi activation is an important aspect of MD pathogenesis. In contrast, the contention that T lymphocytes may play a major role could not be substantiated.


pmid: 28888645
title: Eradication of bovine viral diarrhea virus in Germany-Diversity of subtypes and detection of live-vaccine viruses
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) causes high economic losses in the cattle population worldwide. In Germany, an obligatory control program with detection and removal of persistently infected animals is in force since 2011. For molecular tracing of virus transmission, a comprehensive sequence data base of the currently circulating BVD viruses was established. Partial sequences of 1007 samples collected between 2008 and 2016 were generated. As dominant viruses, subtypes 1b (47.0%) and 1d (26.5%) could be identified with no marked geographic or sampling year effect, a much higher amount of BVDV-2c was detected in 2013 compared to other years, predominantly in Western Germany. In addition, subtypes 1a, 1e, 1f, 1h, 1g, 1k, and 2a were found. Interestingly, besides field-viruses, two different live-vaccine viruses were detected in tissue samples of newborn calves (n=37) whose mothers were immunized during pregnancy.


pmid: 15919926
title: Identification of a cell population that produces alpha/beta interferon in vitro and in vivo in response to noncytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: In vitro infection of bovine cells of many origins with the cytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhea virus (cpBVDV) results in the induction of alpha/beta interferon (IFN-alpha/beta), whereas noncytopathogenic BVDV (ncpBVDV) isolates have been shown not to induce IFN-alpha/beta in vitro. Similarly, cpBVDV induces IFN-alpha/beta in the early bovine fetus, but ncpBVDV does not. However, acute infection of naive cattle with ncpBVDV results in IFN-alpha/beta production. In this study, we identified and characterized a minor population of cells, present in lymph nodes that produce IFN-alpha in response to ncpBVDV. These cells expressed the myeloid markers CD14, CD11b, and CD172a but did not express CD4 and CD45RB. We also established that these cells produced IFN-alpha in the absence of detectable productive infection.


pmid: 15843010
title: Non-transmission of bacterial and viral microbes to embryos and semen stored in the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen in dry shippers
abstract: Cryopreservation and storage of germplasm is an important factor in the prevention of disease transmission by embryo transfer and artificial insemination. Here we report the results of an investigation on transmission of selected bacterial and viral pathogens by the vapour phase of liquid nitrogen (VPLN) to embryos and semen in dewars designed for short-term storage and transportation of biological specimens. In this study transmission of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, BVDV, and BHV-1 was examined from: (1) contaminated dry shippers to germplasm; (2) between contaminated and non-contaminated cryopreserved germplasm; and (3) between stock culture of pathogenic agents and germplasm. Contaminated and non-contaminated samples of embryos and semen were stored in proximity in the vapour phase LN in open containers for 7 days prior to testing for the presence of microbes. The results showed that there was no cross-contamination from either the contaminated dewars to germplasm or between contaminated and non-contaminated samples of embryos and semen during 7 days storage under LN vapours. The outcome of our investigation indicates that VPLN is a safe means for short-term storage of embryos and semen in dry shipper dewars commonly used for transportation of bovine germplasm.


pmid: 8408445
title: Detection of bovine viral diarrhea virus RNA in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded brain tissue by nested polymerase chain reaction
abstract: Isolation and amplification of RNA from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues is delicate due to its fragility and ubiquitous ribonucleases. For retrospective studies, however, a convenient procedure for the detection of RNA in archived material is of great value. Bovine viral diarrhea (BVD) virus is a member of the pestivirus genus in the family Flaviviridae. Different protocols for the isolation of BVD virus RNA from fresh and autolytic as well as from routinely formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded brain tissue of BVDV-infected calves were compared. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) after reverse transcription (RT-PCR) was carried out subsequently for the detection of viral RNA. Using proteinase K digestion of deparaffinized tissue sections without additional ribonuclease inhibitors and subsequent nested PCR, a 803 bp fragment of the gene coding for the nonstructural protein p125 of BVD virus could be consistently detected. In addition, BVD virus RNA was detected by RT-PCR from non-fixed brain tissue after 10 days of autolysis.


pmid: 26796141
title: Pregnancy boosts vaccine-induced Bovine Neonatal Pancytopenia-associated alloantibodies
abstract: Although maternal vaccination is generally considered to be safe, the occurrence of Bovine Neonatal Pancytopenia (BNP) in cattle shows that maternal vaccination may pose a risk to the offspring. Pregsure BVD-induced maternal alloantibodies cause BNP in newborn calves. The occurrence of BNP years after last Pregsure BVD vaccination indicates that alloantibody levels may remain high in dams. Since pregnancy induces alloantibodies we hypothesized that pregnancy boosts the vaccine-induced alloantibody response. Alloantibody levels in Pregsure BVD-vaccinated dams increased from conception towards the end of gestation and declined after parturition. In parallel, BVDV-antibody levels remained constant, indicating that there is specific boosting of alloantibodies. Since the rise in alloantibodies coincides with pregnancy and other alloantigen sources were excluded, we concluded that fetal alloantigens expressed during pregnancy boost the alloimmune response in the dam. These results help explain why BNP cases occur even years after Pregsure BVD has been taken off the market.


pmid: 19883982
title: BVD eradication in Switzerland--a new approach
abstract: Diverse concepts for BVD eradication or control have been applied in several countries with varying success. Results of previous studies conducted in Switzerland have shown that the prevalence of antibody-positive animals is high and that BVDV is widespread in the country causing serious economic losses. A new approach to eradicate BVD in the cattle population in Switzerland was chosen. It consists in testing the whole Swiss cattle population for virus detection in a short period of time, without initial antibody screening. Identified persistently infected (PI) animals have to be slaughtered, and new herd infections should be avoided by movement restrictions. Ear-notches are collected using special tags for labeling the animals, and are analyzed using ELISA or rtRT-PCR methods. Confirmatory tests if needed are performed on blood samples using rtRT-PCR. The eradication program is divided into four phases: (1) Pre-pasturing phase: all young bovines going to transhumance in summer have to be negative tested before. (2) Initial phase: all non-tested bovines have to be tested. Movement restrictions are effective at the same time. (3) Calves phase: all newborn calves have to be tested. (4) Surveillance phase: several strategies will be compared using a modeling approach. After the pre-pasture phase already 595,230 animals (37% of the livestock) have been tested within four months. A prevalence of 1.1% of PIs was observed. The average age of infected animals is 403 days compared to 794 days for non-infected animals, with the oldest PI-animal being over 11 years old. On average PI-animals are slaughtered within 18 days after the last positive result. The pre-pasture phase has shown that sampling and testing a high number of animals in a short time is challenging but possible. The next phase will deal with double the number of animals in a similar time frame. The coordination between all partners as well as the collaboration of farmers is the key factor for ensuring the success of the program.


pmid: 15207451
title: Differential activation of interferon regulatory factors-3 and -7 by non-cytopathogenic and cytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhoea virus
abstract: Non-cytopathogenic bovine viral diarrhoea virus (ncpBVDV) has previously been shown to inhibit the function of interferon regulatory factor-3 in cultured cells [J. Virol. 76 (2002) 8979]. In this study, we show that, like ncpBVDV, when cells were previously exposed to cytopathogenic BVDV (cpBVDV) the appearance of an IRF-3-DNA complex from nuclear extracts that can be induced by heterologous virus infection was not observed. Infection of cells with ncpBVDV or cpBVDV resulted in neither the translocation of IRF-7 from the cytoplasm to the nucleus of infected cells, nor an inhibition of its nuclear translocation in cells super-infected by Semliki Forest Virus. We conclude that cpBVDV and ncpBVDV both share the ability to inhibit the full function of IRF-3 but neither stimulate or block the nuclear uptake of IRF-7.


pmid: 8599222
title: Immunodominant E2 (gp53) sequences of highly virulent bovine viral diarrhea group II viruses indicate a close resemblance to a subgroup of border disease viruses
abstract: The genes for the E2 envelope protein, which elicits virus-neutralizing antibodies, from members of the newly described group II of bovine viral diarrhea viruses (BVDVs) were cloned and sequenced. These BVDVs included a thrombocytopenic strain from the United States, a fetal bovine serum contaminant, a strain from Western Canada, and two highly virulent strains, causing high mortality rates, from Quebec. The nucleotide and amino acid sequences of these E2s had only a 60-65% homology with group I BVDV E2s but >90% homology with the E2 of a subgroup of sheep border disease viruses. The E2 gene of the NADL strain was expressed and monospecific antibodies were raised in calves and rabbits. The virus-neutralizing titers of these antisera were 15- to 80-fold lower for the heterologous group of BVDVs as compared to those for the homologous BVDVs.


pmid: 23573957
title: HCV NS5A replication complex inhibitors. Part 4. Optimization for genotype 1a replicon inhibitory activity
abstract: A series of symmetrical E-stilbene prolinamides that originated from the library-synthesized lead 3 was studied with respect to HCV genotype 1a (G-1a) and genotype 1b (G-1b) replicon inhibition and selectivity against BVDV and cytotoxicity. SAR emerging from an examination of the prolinamide cap region revealed 11 to be a selective HCV NS5A inhibitor exhibiting submicromolar potency against both G-1a and G-1b replicons. Additional structural refinements resulted in the identification of 30 as a potent, dual G-1a/1b HCV NS5A inhibitor.


pmid: 9918333
title: Synergistic effects of bovine respiratory syncytial virus and non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus infection on selected bovine alveolar macrophage functions
abstract: The effect of bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) and non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (ncpBVDV) infection on selected bovine alveolar macrophage (AM) functions was investigated. Alveolar macrophages were harvested from 2- to 6-month-old calves seronegative for BRSV and BVDV and inoculated with approximately 1 median cell culture infective dose of virus per AM. Control, BRSV infected, ncpBVDV-infected and BRSV-ncpBVDV coinfected AM cultures were evaluated for Fc receptor expression, phagosome-lysosome fusion, superoxide anion (O2-) production, and chemotactic activity on Days 1, 3, 5, and 7 post-infection. Both single and combined viral infections significantly depressed AM Fc receptor expression, phagosome-lysosome fusion, and secretion of chemotactic factors with a more significant synergistic depression seen in BRSV-ncpBVDV coinfection. Production of O2- by AM was not decreased by either BRSV or ncpBVDV infection, but was significantly decreased by coinfection with BRSV-ncpBVDV. The present study confirms previous reports of BRSV effects on AM functions and indicate that ncpBVDV affects AM functions in vitro. Coinfection with BRSV-ncpBVDV produced a synergistic depression on AM functions.


pmid: 15062480
title: Progress of control and prevention programs for bovine viral diarrhea virus in Europe
abstract: In Europe, nationwide BVD control programs based on the TC principle have been running for up to 10 years in the Nordic countries. The results have shown that BVD eradication by removal of PI animals without use of vaccines is effective and that today's diagnostic tests, when used by experienced diagnosticians, are suitable for this task. Furthermore, to avoid control programs becoming Sisyphean tasks, adherence to strict biosecurity guide-lines to minimize infection of susceptible herds is a crucial additional measure. Efficient organization of testing, with sufficient capacity of diagnostic laboratories, is also important to minimize the period of overlap when remaining infected and recently emerged naive herds coexist close to each other. Control programs based on voluntary participation are possible, but when approaching final clearance of a national herd, significant delays can easily be suffered if any herd owners are allowed not to clear their herds. The control schemes used in the Nordic countries were tailored to fit the structure of the cattle production in each country. If BVD control programs based on the same principles are to be set up for other bovine populations,it is important to recognize and take into account for differences in the epidemiology of BVD and in the structure of the animal production,including cattle density and husbandry practices. To ensure optimal performance of the diagnostic tests, the diversity of BVDV in the region to be tested should also be considered.


pmid: 33468303
title: Emergence of fatal Mannheimia haemolytica infections in cattle in the Netherlands
abstract: In the Dutch national surveillance system, outbreaks of fatal infections by Mannheimia haemolytica (M. haemolytica) in dairy cows and veal calves have become apparent in recent years. These observations prompted an in-depth analysis of available pathology data over the period 2004-2018 to investigate changes in the occurrence and/or expression of M. haemolytica-associated cattle disease. With multilevel logistic regression models, time trends were identified and corrected for farm, season, pathologist and region. Deaths associated with M. haemolytica infection increased over time with dairy cows and veal calves diagnosed with fatal M. haemolytica infections 1.5 and 1.4 times more frequently every following 3-year period between 2004 and 2018, respectively. M. haemolytica-associated disease showed two distinct disease presentations: acute pleuropneumonia in dairy cows and polyserositis in veal calves. The prevalence of both disease presentations with M. haemolytica confirmed increased in each 3-year time period between 2004 and 2018, with an odds ratio (OR) of 1.5 for acute pleuropneumonia in dairy cows and an OR of 1.7 for polyserositis in veal calves. No change was found for M. haemolytica-associated disease in dairy calves. Although M. haemolytica is considered an opportunist bovine pathogen, and the presence of primary pathogens such as BHV-1, BVDV and Mycoplasma species was not completely ruled out in our study, substantial evidence is provided to indicate infections with M. haemolytica were the most likely cause of death. M. haemolytica-associated diseases occurred more often in October-June than July-September, and were detected more often in necropsied animals from the North, South and East Netherlands than the West Netherlands.


pmid: 30218293
title: Evaluation of the serum virome in calves persistently infected with Pestivirus A, presenting or not presenting mucosal disease
abstract: Bovine viral diarrhea virus 1, reclassified as Pestivirus A, causes an economically important cattle disease that is distributed worldwide. Pestivirus A may cause persistent infection in that calves excrete the virus throughout their lives, spreading the infection in the herd. Many persistently infected (PI) calves die in the first 2 years of life from mucosal disease (MD) or secondary infections, probably as a consequence of virus-induced immune depression. Here, high-throughput sequencing (HTS) was applied for evaluation of the total virome in sera of (i) PI calves displaying clinically apparent MD (n = 8); (ii) PI calves with no signs of MD (n = 8); and (iii) control, Pestivirus A-free calves (n = 8). All the groups were collected at the same time and from the same herd. Serum samples from calves in each of the groups were pooled, submitted to viral RNA/DNA enrichment, and sequenced by HTS. Viral genomes of Pestivirus A, Ungulate erythroparvovirus 1, bosavirus (BosV), and hypothetical circular Rep-encoding single-stranded DNA (CRESS-DNA) viruses were identified. Specific real-time PCR assays were developed to determine the frequency of occurrence of such viruses in each of the groups. The absolute number of distinct viral genomes detected in both PI calf groups was higher than in the control group, as revealed by higher number of reads, contigs, and genomes, representing a wider range of taxons. Genomes representing members of the family Parvoviridae, such as U. erythroparvovirus 1 and BosV, were most frequently detected in all the three groups of calves. Only in MD-affected PI calves, we found two previously unreported Hypothetical single-stranded DNA genomes clustered along with CRESS-DNA viruses. These findings reveal that parvoviruses were the most frequently detected viral genomes in cattle serum; its frequency of detection bears no statistical correlation with the status of calves in relation to Pestivirus A infection, since clinically normal or MD-affected/non-affected PI calves were infected with similar U. erythroparvovirus 1 genome loads. Moreover, MD-affected PI calves were shown to support viremia of CRESS-DNA viral genomes; however, the meaning of such correlation remains to be established.


pmid: 27496747
title: Effects of injectable trace minerals on humoral and cell-mediated immune responses to Bovine viral diarrhea virus, Bovine herpes virus 1 and Bovine respiratory syncytial virus following administration of a modified-live virus vaccine in dairy calves
abstract: Our objective was to evaluate the effect of an injectable trace mineral (ITM) supplement containing zinc, manganese, selenium, and copper on the humoral and cell mediated immune (CMI) responses to vaccine antigens in dairy calves receiving a modified-live viral (MLV) vaccine containing BVDV, BHV1, PI3V and BRSV. A total of 30 dairy calves (3.5 months of age) were administered a priming dose of the MLV vaccine containing BHV1, BVDV1 & 2, BRSV, PI3V, and an attenuated-live Mannheimia-Pasteurella bacterin subcutaneously (SQ). Calves were randomly assigned to 1 of 2 groups: (1) administration of ITM SQ (ITM, n=15) or (2) injection of sterile saline SQ (Control; n=15). Three weeks later, calves received a booster of the same vaccine combination SQ, and a second administration of ITM, or sterile saline, according to the treatment group. Blood samples were collected on days 0, 7, 14, 21, 28, 42, 56, and 90 post-vaccination for determination of antibody titer, viral recall antigen-induced IFN-γ production, and viral antigen-induced proliferation by peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). Administration of ITM concurrently with MLV vaccination resulted in higher antibody titers to BVDV1 on day 28 after priming vaccination compared to the control group (P=0.03). Calves treated with ITM showed an earlier enhancement in PBMC proliferation to BVDV1 following vaccination compared to the control group. Proliferation of PBMC after BVDV stimulation tended to be higher on day 14 after priming vaccination in calves treated with ITM than in the control group (P=0.08). Calves that received ITM showed higher PBMC proliferation to BRSV stimulation on day 7 after priming vaccination compared to the control group (P=0.01). Moreover, calves in the ITM group also had an enhanced production IFN-γ by PBMC after stimulation with BRSV on day 21 after priming vaccination compared to day 0 (P<0.01). In conclusion, administration of ITM concurrently with MLV vaccination in dairy calves resulted in increased antibody titer to BVDV1, and greater PBMC proliferation to BVDV1 and BRSV recall stimulation compared to the control group, suggesting that ITM might represent a promising tool to enhance the humoral and CMI responses to MLV vaccines in cattle.


pmid: 28758367
title: HoBi-like is the most prevalent ruminant pestivirus in Northeastern Brazil
abstract: The ruminant pestiviral species BVDV-1, BVDV-2 and BDV, along with the putative species HoBi-like, may cause substantial economic losses in cattle, sheep and goats. Brazil's large size, variable biomes and wide range of ruminant animal production within different geographic regions suggest that the presence and prevalence of ruminant pestivirus may differ by regions within Brazil. This study investigated the genetic diversity of ruminant pestiviruses and determined the frequency of active infections within two states of the Northeast Region of Brazil, Maranhão and Rio Grande do Norte. Serum samples from 16,621 cattle and 2,672 small ruminants from 569 different herds residing in this region were tested by RT-PCR followed by DNA sequencing. Seventeen positive cattle were detected (0.1%) from fifteen different herds (2.64%). All isolates were classified as HoBi-like pestiviruses based on phylogenetic analysis. All small ruminant samples tested negative. The findings presented herein suggest that the Northeast Region of Brazil has a uniquely high prevalence of HoBi-like viruses. The increasing reports of HoBi-like viruses detected in cattle in the field suggest that natural infection with these viruses may be more widespread than previously thought. The identification of HoBi-like viruses as the most prevalent type of ruminant pestivirus circulating in the Northeast Region of Brazil indicates the need for both continued monitoring and determination of the extent of economic losses associated with HoBi-like virus infections. In addition, it must be taken into account in the choice of diagnostic tests and in vaccine formulations.


pmid: 12710498
title: Humoral immune response and assessment of vaccine virus shedding in calves receiving modified live virus vaccines containing bovine herpesvirus-1 and bovine viral diarrhoea virus 1a
abstract: Susceptible calves were administered modified live virus (MLV) vaccines containing bovine herpesvirus-1 (BHV1) and bovine viral diarrhoea type 1 (BVDV1a) strains intramuscularly, with one vaccine containing both MLV and inactivated BHV-1 and inactivated BVDV1a. There was no evidence of transmission of vaccine (BHV-1 and BVDV1a) strains to susceptible non-vaccinated controls commingled with vaccinates. No vaccinates had detectable BHV-1 in peripheral blood leucocytes (PBL) after vaccination. Each of three vaccines containing an MLV BVDV1a strain caused a transient BVDV vaccine induced viremia in PBL after vaccination, which was cleared as the calves developed serum BVDV1 antibodies. The vaccine containing both MLV and inactivated BHV-1 induced serum BHV-1 antibodies more rapid than MLV BHV-1 vaccine. Two doses of MLV BHV-1 (days 0 and 28) in some cases induced serum BHV-1 antibodies to higher levels and greater duration than one dose.


pmid: 28669036
title: Genomic and antigenic relationships between two 'HoBi'-like strains and other members of the Pestivirus genus
abstract: 'HoBi'-like viruses comprise a putative new species within the genus Pestivirus of the family Flaviviridae. 'HoBi'-like viruses have been detected worldwide in batches of fetal calf serum, in surveillance programs for bovine pestiviruses and from animals presenting clinical signs resembling bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV)-associated diseases. To date, few complete genome sequences of 'HoBi'-like viruses are available in public databases. Moreover, detailed analyses of such genomes are still scarce. In an attempt to expand data on the genetic diversity and biology of pestiviruses, two genomes of 'HoBi'-like viruses recovered from Brazilian cattle were described and characterized in this study. Analysis of the whole genome and antigenic properties of these two new 'HoBi'-like isolates suggest that these viruses are genetically close to recognized pestiviruses. The present data provide evidence that 'HoBi'-like viruses are members of the genus Pestivirus and should be formally recognized as a novel species.


pmid: 34892956
title: Phylogenetic analysis of bovine pestiviruses: testing the evolution of clinical symptoms
abstract: This study presents a phylogenetic analysis of 115 bovine pestiviruses. A sequence data set from the 5' untranslated genomic region was analyzed with maximum parsimony, bootstrapping and parsimony jackknifing. We tested for the proposed classifications of the group and analyzed the evolution of the symptoms associated with Pestivirus infections in bovines. Based on the historical framework provided by our phylogenetic trees, we also characterized the extent and importance of contamination caused in biologicals by the virus. Our phylogenetic analyses showed that the previously defined genotypes are monophyletic, except for genotype 1a. Based on our cladograms, we propose the existence of more than 12 monophyletic groups within the species BVDV 1. The mapping of clinical symptoms suggests that the emergence of some genotypes could have been driven by a change in the pathogenic process. Enteric Problems appear to be ancestral, while Reproductive and Respiratory Problems arise with the emergence of genotypes 1b, 1d and the herein-proposed genotype Arg 1. The distribution of contaminant strains on the cladograms shows that pestiviral contamination is a common process, and also suggests that a contaminated product might be a vehicle for virus dispersion. Implications for virus evolution, virus taxonomy, veterinary medicine and biotechnology are discussed.


pmid: 28254416
title: Molecular characterization and biological activity of bovine interferon-omega3
abstract: Bovine interferon-omega3 (BoIFN-ω3) gene was amplified from bovine liver genomic DNA, which encodes a 195-amino acid protein containing a 23-amino acid signal peptide. Analysis of the molecular characteristics revealed that BoIFN-ω3 evolving from IFN-ω, contained four cysteine residues and five alpha helices, showing that BoIFN-ω3 presented the typical molecular characteristics of type I interferon. BoIFN-ω3 exhibited antiviral and antiproliferative activities, which exerted a protective effect against VSV in several mammalian cell lines, as well as against BEV, IBRV, and BVDV in MDBK cell. Moreover, BoIFN-ω3 was shown to be highly sensitive to trypsin, but remaining stable despite changes in pH and temperature. Additionally, BoIFN-ω3 induced the transcription of Mx1, ISG15, and ISG56 genes, as well as the expression of Mx1 protein in a time-dependent manner. These findings will be useful to further study BoIFN-ω in host's defence against infectious diseases, particularly viral infections. Furthermore, results will facilitate further research on the bovine interferon family.


pmid: 24815344
title: Stimulation and analysis of the immune response in calves from vaccinated pregnant cows
abstract: The effect of vaccinating pregnant cows with an inactivated vaccine against Mannheimia haemolytica, BRSV and PI3V infections on selected immune responses in their offspring was examined. Blood samples were collected weekly for 12 weeks from six newborn calves from each of vaccinated (experimental) and unvaccinated (control) dams. Specific antibodies to M. haemolytica, BRSV and PI3V and mean values of IgA, IgG concentrations were significantly higher in the experimental calves compared with the controls. However, specific antibody titres to adenovirus type 3, BHV1 and BVDV in the experimental calves had constant levels while the control group levels changed. The IgM, Hp and SAA concentrations generally increased until week 8 in the experimental group, but the control group titres became higher after week 9. This study demonstrates that specific immunisation of cows pre-partum significantly stimulated parameters associated with immunity and it also controlled the acute phase response intensity in their offspring. Therefore the vaccination of dams may provide additional antibody protection against infection to their offspring.


pmid: 9343337
title: Induction of procoagulant activity in virus infected bovine alveolar macrophages and the effect of lipopolysaccharide
abstract: Three viruses known to be associated with the bovine respiratory disease complex were evaluated in vitro for potential impact upon the procoagulant activity (PCA) of bovine alveolar macrophages (bAM). Cultures of bAM were inoculated with bovine parainfluenza virus Type 3 (PI-3), cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (cpBVDV), non-cytopathic BVDV (ncpBVDV), or bovine herpes virus Type 1 (BHV-1) and incubated for several time periods (24, 48, 72, 96 h). BAM were then exposed to E. coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS), or LPS with bovine serum. The amount of PCA expressed was quantified using a chromogenic assay. Viral inoculation increased bAM expression of PCA (P < 0.01). The increase in PCA expression was larger at higher rates of viral inoculation (P < 0.01). LPS enhanced PCA expression by bAM at low rates of viral inoculation (P < 0.01). The effect of LPS-serum treatment was greater than the LPS alone (P < 0.01). At high rates of viral inoculation, LPS had no enhancing effect on PCA expression. The effect of LPS on virus inoculated bAM varied with virus type, rate of inoculation, and duration of virus exposure (P < 0.01). The results suggest that these four viruses initiate the production of PCA by bAM independently of LPS. In the field situation, an initial viral infection may induce fibrin deposition in the pulmonary alveoli prior to the establishment of a secondary gram negative bacterial infection.


pmid: 24815344
title: Stimulation and analysis of the immune response in calves from vaccinated pregnant cows
abstract: The effect of vaccinating pregnant cows with an inactivated vaccine against Mannheimia haemolytica, BRSV and PI3V infections on selected immune responses in their offspring was examined. Blood samples were collected weekly for 12 weeks from six newborn calves from each of vaccinated (experimental) and unvaccinated (control) dams. Specific antibodies to M. haemolytica, BRSV and PI3V and mean values of IgA, IgG concentrations were significantly higher in the experimental calves compared with the controls. However, specific antibody titres to adenovirus type 3, BHV1 and BVDV in the experimental calves had constant levels while the control group levels changed. The IgM, Hp and SAA concentrations generally increased until week 8 in the experimental group, but the control group titres became higher after week 9. This study demonstrates that specific immunisation of cows pre-partum significantly stimulated parameters associated with immunity and it also controlled the acute phase response intensity in their offspring. Therefore the vaccination of dams may provide additional antibody protection against infection to their offspring.


pmid: 22349591
title: Interferon stimulated genes, CXCR4 and immune cell responses in peripheral blood mononuclear cells infected with bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (ncpBVDV) induces immune responses mediated by chemokines and interferon (IFN) stimulated genes (ISGs). Cultured bovine peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from ncpBVDV-naïve cattle were used herein to demonstrate that BVDV infection modulates chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4), CXCL12, IFN-I, ISGs and selected immune cell marker (CD4, CD8, CD14) mRNAs, and that these acute responses to viral infection are reflected in PBMC cultured with serum from heifers carrying fetuses persistently infected (PI) with ncpBVDV. Infection of PBMC with ncpBVDV increased IFN-β, ISG15, RIG-I, CXCR4, CXCL12, and CD8 mRNA concentrations after 32 h. Culture of PBMC with uterine vein serum from acutely infected heifers, inoculated with ncpBVDV during early gestation to generate PI fetuses, also increased the concentration of CXCR4, RIG-I and ISG15 mRNAs. In vitro PBMC treatment with ncpBVDV or uterine vein serum from acutely infected pregnant heifers activates chemokine, ISG and immune cell responses.


pmid: 16862285
title: A search for RNA insertions and NS3 gene duplication in the genome of cytopathic isolates of bovine viral diarrhea virus
abstract: Calves born persistently infected with non-cytopathic bovine viral diarrhea virus (ncpBVDV) frequently develop a fatal gastroenteric illness called mucosal disease. Both the original virus (ncpBVDV) and an antigenically identical but cytopathic virus (cpBVDV) can be isolated from animals affected by mucosal disease. Cytopathic BVDVs originate from their ncp counterparts by diverse genetic mechanisms, all leading to the expression of the non-structural polypeptide NS3 as a discrete protein. In contrast, ncpBVDVs express only the large precursor polypeptide, NS2-3, which contains the NS3 sequence within its carboxy-terminal half. We report here the investigation of the mechanism leading to NS3 expression in 41 cpBVDV isolates. An RT-PCR strategy was employed to detect RNA insertions within the NS2-3 gene and/or duplication of the NS3 gene, two common mechanisms of NS3 expression. RT-PCR amplification revealed insertions in the NS2-3 gene of three cp isolates, with the inserts being similar in size to that present in the cpBVDV NADL strain. Sequencing of one such insert revealed a 296-nucleotide sequence with a central core of 270 nucleotides coding for an amino acid sequence highly homologous (98%) to the NADL insert, a sequence corresponding to part of the cellular J-Domain gene. One cpBVDV isolate contained a duplication of the NS3 gene downstream from the original locus. In contrast, no detectable NS2-3 insertions or NS3 gene duplications were observed in the genome of 37 cp isolates. These results demonstrate that processing of NS2-3 without bulk mRNA insertions or NS3 gene duplications seems to be a frequent mechanism leading to NS3 expression and BVDV cytopathology.


pmid: 19857935
title: Classical swine fever: comparison of oronasal immunisation with CP7E2alf marker and C-strain vaccines in domestic pigs
abstract: Effective oronasal vaccination against classical swine fever (CSF) is essential to achieve protection in wild boar. However the currently available live CSF vaccines, e.g. C-strain, do not allow serological differentiation between infected and vaccinated animals (DIVA). A modified live marker vaccine candidate (CP7E2alf) has been recently developed (Reimann et al., 2004). This communication reports the comparison of CP7E2alf and C-strain virus vaccines during 98 days following oronasal immunisation in domestic pigs. C-strain vaccine virus was consistently detected in tonsils of all (n=30) animals from 3 to 77 days post vaccination (dpv) and in blood (n=36) between 3 and 13dpv by CSFV-specific rRT-PCR. CP7E2alf virus RNA was detected in 6 animals slaughtered between 4 and 63dpv by a BVDV-specific rRT-PCR. The chimeric virus was not detected in blood samples. As detected by CSFV E2-specific antibody ELISA and virus neutralisation tests, seroconversion first occurred at 11dpv in the C-strain vaccinated group and between 11 and 15dpv in the CP7E2alf vaccinated group. The serological response was still present at 98dpv. The CP7E2alf serological response remained negative using the CSFV E(rns) ELISA whereas seroconversion occurred in the C-strain vaccinated group. In conclusion, the primary replication site of CP7E2alf vaccine virus was found to be the tonsils as in the C-strain and virulent field strains. Persistence of CP7E2alf in the tonsils was also demonstrated up to 63dpv. Both vaccines showed immunogenicity after oronasal administration in domestic pigs. In contrast to the C-strain, CP7E2alf vaccine allowed the use of DIVA approaches in serological tests. This study confirms CP7E2alf as a promising marker vaccine candidate for oronasal vaccination programmes to control CSF in domestic pigs and wild boar.


pmid: 26010668
title: Synthesis and in vitro antiviral activities of [(dihydrofuran-2-yl)oxy]methyl-phosphonate nucleosides with 2-substituted adenine as base
abstract: The synthesis of [(2',5'-dihydrofuran-2-yl)oxy]methyl-phosphonate nucleosides with a 2-substituted adenine base moiety starting from 2-deoxy-3,5-bis-O-(4-methylbenzoyl)-α-L-ribofuranosyl chloride and 2,6-dichloropurine is described. The key step is the regiospecific and stereoselective introduction of a phosphonate synthon at C(2) of the furan ring. None of the synthesized compounds showed significant in vitro activity against HIV, BVDV, and HBV.


pmid: 21878124
title: Vaccine-induced antibodies linked to bovine neonatal pancytopenia (BNP) recognize cattle major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I)
abstract: A mysterious disease affecting calves, named bovine neonatal pancytopenia (BNP), emerged in 2007 in several European countries. Epidemiological studies revealed a connection between BNP and vaccination with an inactivated vaccine against bovine virus diarrhea (BVD). Alloantibodies reacting with blood leukocytes of calves were detected in serum and colostrum of dams, which have given birth to calves affected by BNP. To understand the linkage between vaccination and the development of alloantibodies, we determined the antigens reacting with these alloantibodies. Immunoprecipitation of surface proteins from bovine leukocytes and kidney cells using sera from dams with a confirmed case of BNP in their gestation history reacted with two dominant protein species of 44 and 12 kDa. These proteins were not detected by sera from dams, free of BVDV and not vaccinated against BVD, and from sera of animals vaccinated with a different inactivated BVD vaccine. The 44 kDa protein was identified by mass spectrometry analysis as MHC I, the other as β-2-microglobulin. The presence of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I) in the vaccine was confirmed by Western blot using a MHC I specific monoclonal antibody. A model of BNP pathogenesis is proposed.


pmid: 30056173
title: Who's who in the Bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 species: Genotypes L and R
abstract: The bovine viral diarrhea virus type 1 species is responsible for cosmopolitan diseases affecting cattle and other ruminants, with relevant impact on animal production. The species presents high genomic heterogeneity, with implications on control and prophylactic programs. Genomic traits of different genetic groups are often related to geographic origin. Atypical sequences have been reported from Pestivirus isolates originated from cattle in Turkey. Based on phylogenetic analysis of 5' untranslated region and Npro and secondary structure analysis of the 5'-UTR RNA, Turkish isolates have been segregated in two distinct genotypes. Out of the twenty-three identified BVDV-1 genotypes, the Turkish clusters, named L and R or 1.16 and 1.14, according to palindromic nucleotide substitution genotyping method, represent genomic clusters so far, not described elsewhere, suggesting geographic segregation. In order to avoid confusion in the current taxonomy of the species, nomenclature of described homonymous genotypes, referred to different genomic clusters, should be corrected.


pmid: 22708360
title: Multivariate model for the assessment of risk of fetal loss in goat herds
abstract: The observational study was carried out in a population of Polish breeding goats in 2007 to determine the prevalence of fetal loss and identify risk factors contributing to its occurrence. The multivariate model allowing to predict the risk of the occurrence of fetal loss in a herd in a study population was developed. Data on the occurrence of fetal loss, as well as of 28 hypothesized risk factors were collected from goat owners using standardized questionnaire during face-to-face reviews on farms. Moreover, data on the herd-level seroprevalence of four abortifacient infections--Chlamydophila abortus, Leptospira spp., BVDV-1 and Neospora caninum--were included in the final analysis. Fetal loss was reported as occurring often in 12 of 49 goat herds (24.5%). The relationship between the hypothesized risk factors and the occurrence of fetal loss was verified in the multivariate logistic regression (alpha=0.05). Final analysis yielded four risk factors: regular veterinary supervision at least twice a year (OR 0.188; CI 95% 0.054 - 0.656), frequent occurrence of injuries and fractures (OR 3.172; CI 95% 1.081 - 9.310), frequent occurrence of respiratory signs in adult goats (OR 4.848; CI 95% 1.353 - 17.377) and presence of antibodies to C. abortus in a herd (OR 58.116; CI 95% 1.369 - 2466.438). The accuracy of the multivariate model was analyzed using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve technique. Area under the curve was 0.895 (CI 95% 0.801-0.981). For optimal cut-off value of 0.20-0.35 the multivariate model had sensitivity of 75.00% and specificity of 89.19% in predicting fetal loss in a herd.


pmid: 22366027
title: Characterisation of vaccine-induced, broadly cross-reactive IFN-γ secreting T cell responses that correlate with rapid protection against classical swine fever virus
abstract: Live attenuated C-strain classical swine fever viruses (CSFV) provide a rapid onset of protection, but the lack of a serological test that can differentiate vaccinated from infected animals limits their application in CSF outbreaks. Since immunity may precede antibody responses, we examined the kinetics and specificity of peripheral blood T cell responses from pigs vaccinated with a C-strain vaccine and challenged after five days with a genotypically divergent CSFV isolate. Vaccinated animals displayed virus-specific IFN-γ responses from day 3 post-challenge, whereas, unvaccinated challenge control animals failed to mount a detectable response. Both CD4(+) and cytotoxic CD8(+) T cells were identified as the cellular source of IFN-γ. IFN-γ responses showed extensive cross-reactivity when T cells were stimulated with CSFV isolates spanning the major genotypes. To determine the specificity of these responses, T cells were stimulated with recombinant CSFV proteins and a proteome-wide peptide library from a related virus, BVDV. Major cross-reactive peptides were mapped on the E2 and NS3 proteins. Finally, IFN-γ was shown to exert potent antiviral effects on CSFV in vitro. These data support the involvement of broadly cross-reactive T cell IFN-γ responses in the rapid protection conferred by the C-strain vaccine and this information should aid the development of the next generation of CSFV vaccines.


pmid: 25139431
title: A multidisciplinary approach to determine factors associated with calf rearing practices and calf mortality in dairy herds
abstract: In the Netherlands, an increase in ear-tagged calf mortality (3 days to 1 year of age) in dairy farms was observed. The aim was to determine why calf mortality increased and how to reduce calf mortality in herds with structural high rates. A multi-disciplinary approach was chosen to study this phenomenon. First analysis of census data revealed that the majority of the calves died in the first month of life. In addition, a panel of 236 farmers indicated that the increase in calf mortality might be related to priority, time management and the mind-set of farmers. For that reason a questionnaire was carried out to detect risk factors for mortality among young calves (<1 month) in 100 dairy farms with increased calf mortality compared to 100 dairy farms with stable and below average calf mortality. The results showed that, besides management factors such as IBR and BVDV control, and purchase of cattle, also the answers to statements giving an indication on the farmers' mind-set, were associated with calf mortality. Therefore, a qualitative sociological study on the farmers' identity was conducted by performing in-depth interviews among 30 farmers with structurally high calf mortality rates. Afterwards, the results were communicated with a veterinary advisor who visited the farmers and gave tailored advice. Most of the interviewed farmers believed to have sufficient knowledge and skills regarding calf rearing. The farmers did not share their calf rearing problems with colleagues and advisors but they mentioned to be open to receive advice if not communicated in a reproaching or pedantic way. The sociologist distinguished three different phases of awareness concerning calf mortality among the farmers: (1) farmers who were only partly, or not at all, aware of high calf mortality; (2) farmers who felt powerless because of their inability to find a solution to their problems; and (3) farmers who knew they can be inaccurate when it comes to rearing calves, but were reluctant to change this. With the background information of the farmers' identity it was easier for the veterinary advisor to provide tailored advice resulting in a higher probability of following up. A first evaluation in which calf mortality rates in the six months after providing the advice were monitored, indicated that the advice resulted in reduced mortality. The combination of census data, epidemiological and qualitative sociological research revealed that advisors should be aware of the attitude and mind-set of the farmer and adapt their approach and advice accordingly.


pmid: 23628828
title: Antiviral activity of Bacillus sp. isolated from the marine sponge Petromica citrina against bovine viral diarrhea virus, a surrogate model of the hepatitis C virus
abstract: The Hepatitis C virus causes chronic infections in humans, which can develop to liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The Bovine viral diarrhea virus is used as a surrogate model for antiviral assays for the HCV. From marine invertebrates and microorganisms isolated from them, extracts were prepared for assessment of their possible antiviral activity. Of the 128 tested, 2 were considered active and 1 was considered promising. The best result was obtained from the extracts produced from the Bacillus sp. isolated from the sponge Petromica citrina. The extracts 555 (500 µg/mL, SI>18) and 584 (150 µg/mL, SI 27) showed a percentage of protection of 98% against BVDV, and the extract 616, 90% of protection. All of them showed activity during the viral adsorption. Thus, various substances are active on these studied organisms and may lead to the development of drugs which ensure an alternative therapy for the treatment of hepatitis C.


pmid: 18812200
title: Double immunization strategy with a BoHV-4-vectorialized secreted chimeric peptide BVDV-E2/BoHV-1-gD
abstract: A bovine herpesvirus 4 was isolated from the milk cell fraction of a healthy cow and his full genome cloned as a bacterial artificial chromosome. So cloned viral genome was used as a vector platform to deliver in vitro and in vivo an optimized secreted chimeric peptide obtained by the fusion of the bovine viral diarrhoea virus glycoprotein E2 ectodomain with the bovine herpesvirus 1 glycoprotein D ectodomain. Recombinant virus infected cells robustly expressed and secreted the chimeric peptide into the culture medium and inoculated animals with the recombinant virus successfully responded toward antigens, gE2 and gD. Thus, this work has implications for the development of safe and effective polyvalent vaccines.


pmid: 34023545
title: Genetic and evolutionary analysis of emerging HoBi-like pestivirus
abstract: HoBi-like pestivirus, an emerging species within the Pestivirus genus, is an important pathogen associated with a variety of clinical manifestations of ruminants, especially cattle. HoBi-like pestiviruses were identified in several countries and from different hosts, and raised concerns with regard to their acute and persistent infections, which is implicated in economic losses for cattle farmers. However, the transmission path, codon usage bias, and host adaptation of the virus has not been studied. Hence, we performed the analysis the spatio-temporal transmission based on the available 5'-UTR sequences of HoBi-like pestivirus, and then conducted codon analysis of the complete coding sequence of the virus. The results show the virus appeared in 1952 (95% HPD: 1905-1985) and may have originated in India. In addition, Italy is the hub for the spread of the virus. Moreover, six potential recombination events and two complex recombination events were discovered. Analysis of codon usage patterns revealed that the effective number of codon (ENC) values with an average of 50.85, and the codon usage bias is greatly affected by natural selection, which is different from the previous BVDV-1, 2. Finally, codon adaptation index (CAI) analysis shows that pigs may be the potential origin species of the HoBi-like pestivirus. These findings will contribute to more effective control of the spread of the virus, extend the knowledge about the genetic and evolutionary features of HoBi-like viruses and provide some information for vaccine research.


pmid: 26443549
title: Antiviral activity of benzotriazole derivatives. 5-[4-(Benzotriazol-2-yl)phenoxy]-2,2-dimethylpentanoic acids potently and selectively inhibit Coxsackie Virus B5
abstract: A library of 64 benzotriazole derivatives (17 of which were [4-(benzotriazol-2-yl)phenoxy]alkanoic acids) were screened for antiviral activity against a panel of twelve DNA and RNA viruses. Twenty-six compounds (12 of which were [4-(benzotriazol-2-yl)phenoxy]alkanoic acids) displayed activity against one or more viruses. CVB-5, RSV, BVDV, Sb-1 and YFV were, in decreasing order, the more frequently and effectively affected viruses; DENV-2, WNV, HIV-1 and Reo-1 were only occasionally and modestly affected, while the remaining viruses were not affected by any of the tested compounds. Worth of note were compounds 33 and 35; the former for the activity against Sb-1 (EC50=7 μM) and the latter for the large spectrum of activity including six viruses with a mean EC50=12 μM. Even more interesting were the alkanoic acids 45-48 and 50-57 for their activity against RSV and/or CVB-5. In particular, compound 56 displayed a potent and selective activity against CVB-5 with EC50=0.15 μM and SI=100, thus representing a valuable hit compound for the development of antiviral agents for the treatment of human pathologies related to this virus.


pmid: 7871698
title: Double blind field evaluation of a trivalent vaccine against respiratory disease in veal calves
abstract: A field trial was performed to determine the effect of a trivalent vaccine on Clinical Respiratory Tract Problems (CRTP) in veal calves. The vaccine has been developed to increase immunity against the causal agents of IBR, BVD and BRSV infection. In total 928 calves, housed in 16 compartments of one herd, were involved. In four compartments of 58 calves each, vaccinated and non-vaccinated calves were housed together. Four other compartments were treated as a whole and 8 compartments were left untreated. CRTP incidence, medications, weight gain, haemoglobulin and IgG level were recorded. From CRTP positive animals, seroconversion and presence of specific bacteriae and/or viruses were measured as well. Results of the compartments where vaccinated and non-vaccinated calves were housed together showed that the incidence of CRTP in vaccinated calves was 0.16 while it amounted to 0.28 in controls. Most cases were found between day 40 and 60 after the start of the trial. Seroconversion for vaccine specific viruses was sporadically found, but the presence of Pasteurella's was confirmed in the majority of cases. Presumably, the higher incidence of CRTP in the control group was due to a higher level of BVDV infection which might facilitate a clinical infection with Pasteurella's. Vaccination was also negatively related to the percentage of affected lungs at slaughter, the number of days antibiotics had to be administered and subsequently to medicine costs, although these effects were not significant. Daily weight gain was significantly affected by CRTP, but not by vaccination. The effects of vaccination in the compartments where calves were either all vaccinated or not-vaccinated, were similar or larger when compared to the effects in compartments where half of the calves were vaccinated.


pmid: 33162783
title: Electrochemical investigations for COVID-19 detection-A comparison with other viral detection methods
abstract: Virus-induced infection such as SARS-CoV-2 is a serious threat to human health and the economic setback of the world. Continued advances in the development of technologies are required before the viruses undergo mutation. The low concentration of viruses in environmental samples makes the detection extremely challenging; simple, accurate and rapid detection methods are in urgent need. Of all the analytical techniques, electrochemical methods have the established capabilities to address the issues. Particularly, the integration of nanotechnology would allow miniature devices to be made available at the point-of-care. This review outlines the capabilities of electrochemical methods in conjunction with nanotechnology for the detection of SARS-CoV-2. Future directions and challenges of the electrochemical biosensors for pathogen detection are covered including wearable and conformal biosensors, detection of plant pathogens, multiplexed detection, and reusable biosensors for on-site monitoring, thereby providing low-cost and disposable biosensors.


pmid: 34824337
title: Genes and regulatory mechanisms associated with experimentally-induced bovine respiratory disease identified using supervised machine learning methodology
abstract: Bovine respiratory disease (BRD) is a multifactorial disease involving complex host immune interactions shaped by pathogenic agents and environmental factors. Advancements in RNA sequencing and associated analytical methods are improving our understanding of host response related to BRD pathophysiology. Supervised machine learning (ML) approaches present one such method for analyzing new and previously published transcriptome data to identify novel disease-associated genes and mechanisms. Our objective was to apply ML models to lung and immunological tissue datasets acquired from previous clinical BRD experiments to identify genes that classify disease with high accuracy. Raw mRNA sequencing reads from 151 bovine datasets (n = 123 BRD, n = 28 control) were downloaded from NCBI-GEO. Quality filtered reads were assembled in a HISAT2/Stringtie2 pipeline. Raw gene counts for ML analysis were normalized, transformed, and analyzed with MLSeq, utilizing six ML models. Cross-validation parameters (fivefold, repeated 10 times) were applied to 70% of the compiled datasets for ML model training and parameter tuning; optimized ML models were tested with the remaining 30%. Downstream analysis of significant genes identified by the top ML models, based on classification accuracy for each etiological association, was performed within WebGestalt and Reactome (FDR ≤ 0.05). Nearest shrunken centroid and Poisson linear discriminant analysis with power transformation models identified 154 and 195 significant genes for IBR and BRSV, respectively; from these genes, the two ML models discriminated IBR and BRSV with 100% accuracy compared to sham controls. Significant genes classified by the top ML models in IBR (154) and BRSV (195), but not BVDV (74), were related to type I interferon production and IL-8 secretion, specifically in lymphoid tissue and not homogenized lung tissue. Genes identified in Mannheimia haemolytica infections (97) were involved in activating classical and alternative pathways of complement. Novel findings, including expression of genes related to reduced mitochondrial oxygenation and ATP synthesis in consolidated lung tissue, were discovered. Genes identified in each analysis represent distinct genomic events relevant to understanding and predicting clinical BRD. Our analysis demonstrates the utility of ML with published datasets for discovering functional information to support the prediction and understanding of clinical BRD.


pmid: 34272669
title: The contribution of bovines to human health against viral infections
abstract: In the last 40 years, novel viruses have evolved at a much faster pace than other pathogens. Viral diseases pose a significant threat to public health around the world. Bovines have a longstanding history of significant contributions to human nutrition, agricultural, industrial purposes, medical research, drug and vaccine development, and livelihood. The life cycle, genomic structures, viral proteins, and pathophysiology of bovine viruses studied in vitro paved the way for understanding the human counterparts. Calf model has been used for testing vaccines against RSV, papillomavirus vaccines and anti-HCV agents were principally developed after using the BPV and BVDV model, respectively. Some bovine viruses-based vaccines (BPIV-3 and bovine rotaviruses) were successfully developed, clinically tried, and commercially produced. Cows, immunized with HIV envelope glycoprotein, produced effective broadly neutralizing antibodies in their serum and colostrum against HIV. Here, we have summarized a few examples of human viral infections for which the use of bovines has contributed to the acquisition of new knowledge to improve human health against viral infections covering the convergence between some human and bovine viruses and using bovines as disease models. Additionally, the production of vaccines and drugs, bovine-based products were covered, and the precautions in dealing with bovines and bovine-based materials.


pmid: 12430933
title: Pathogen inactivation of blood components: current status and introduction of an approach using riboflavin as a photosensitizer
abstract: Riboflavin is a naturally occurring compound and an essential human nutrient. Studies in the 1960s and 70s showed that it could be effective, when exposed to visible or UV light, in inactivating viruses and bacteria. This suggested to us that it could act as a photosensitizer useful in the inactivation of pathogens found in blood products, because of its nucleic acid specificity and its limited tendency toward indiscriminate oxidation. The riboflavin molecule is a planar, conjugated ring structure with a sugar side chain that confers water solubility. The planar portion is capable of intercalating between the bases of DNA or RNA. Light activated riboflavin oxidizes guanine in nucleic acids, preventing replication of the pathogen's genome. Gambro BCT is developing processes using riboflavin and light to inactivate pathogens in plasma, platelet, and red cell products. We call these Pathogen Eradication Technology (PET) processes. Riboflavin is non-toxic; it must be present in the body for good health. The photo-byproducts formed in the PET processes are lumichrome and protein adducts. The photodegradation of riboflavin in the body is clearly shown by the decrease in its concentration in neonates who are treated with intense visible light to break down circulating bilirubin, which their immature livers cannot yet handle. A definitive lookback study showed no difference in cancer rates between the 55,000 children receiving this therapy in Denmark from 1977 through 1989 and nonirradiated controls. Gambro BCT is developing specific riboflavin-based PET processes for platelet concentrates, fresh frozen plasma, and packed red blood cells. In each, the process is being optimized to achieve high levels of inactivation of specific pathogens, while maintaining acceptable levels of product quality and activity. Extra- and intracellular HIV, BVDV (a model for HCV), and pseudorabies virus (a herpes virus) have been used to guide process development and validation. We have demonstrated 4 to 7 log10 reductions in the titers of these viruses, when they are spiked into blood products and irradiated in the presence of riboflavin. Porcine parvovirus, a tight-capsid, nonenveloped virus is more resistant, a finding in all experimental inactivation approaches. A range of bacteria implicated in platelet and red cell transfusion injuries and deaths, including S. aureus, E. coli, K. pneumoniae, and Y. enterocolitica, are being used to validate antibacterial efficacy. The PET platelet process involves the addition of riboflavin to platelets in plasma, illumination of the product, storage of the product and transfusion without further manipulation. The lack of toxicity of the treatment byproducts permits this ease of use. Quality of the platelets throughout storage has been assessed by pH, PO2, lactate, hypotonic shock response, morphology, glucose, and GMP-140 expression. In vitro function is well maintained. The levels seen are within the range of those reported in commonly transfused products. Radiolabeled transfusion studies of treated platelets have been carried out in primates to determine a preliminary measure of their in-vivo circulation. The in vivo recoveries and survivals of treated and control platelets did not differ. This work suggests that an endogenous photosensitizer, riboflavin, which has an extremely good safety profile, can inactivate high levels of a broad range of viruses and bacteria in platelet concentrates, fresh frozen plasma, and in red blood cells, preserving the activity and functionality of the components. Planned animal and clinical studies are expected to solidify this suggestion into a well-characterized process which can be safely and readily applied to reduce the risks of transfusion transmitted disease.


pmid: 33575990
title: Causes of neonatal calf diarrhea and mortality in pasture-based dairy herds in Uruguay: a farm-matched case-control study
abstract: Neonatal calf diarrhea (NCD) and mortality cause significant losses to the dairy industry. The preweaning dairy calf mortality risk in Uruguay is high (15.2%); however, causes for these losses are largely unknown. This study aimed to assess whether various pathogens were associated with NCD and death in Uruguayan dairy calves and whether these infections, diarrhea, or deaths were associated with the failure of transfer of passive immunity (FTPI). Contemporary diarrheic (n = 264,) and non-diarrheic (n = 271) 1- to 30-day-old calves from 27 farms were sampled. Feces were analyzed by antigen-capture ELISA for Cryptosporidium spp., rotavirus, bovine coronavirus, and Escherichia coli F5+, RT-PCR for bovine astrovirus (BoAstV), and bacterial cultures for Salmonella enterica. Blood/serum was analyzed by RT-PCR or antigen-capture ELISA for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV). Serum of ≤ 8-day-old calves (n = 95) was assessed by refractometry to determine the concention of serum total proteins (STP) as an indicator of FTPI. Whether the sampled calves died before weaning was recorded. At least one pathogen was detected in 65.4% of the calves, and this percentage was significantly higher in diarrheic (83.7%) versus non-diarrheic (47.6%) calves. Unlike the other pathogens, Cryptosporidium spp. and rotavirus were associated with NCD. Diarrheic calves, calves infected with any of the pathogens, and calves infected with rotavirus had significantly lower concentrations of STP. Diarrheic calves had higher chances of dying before weaning than non-diarrheic calves. Diarrheic calves infected with S. enterica were at increased risk of mortality. Controlling NCD, salmonellosis, cryptosporidiosis, and rotavirus infections, and improving colostrum management practices would help to reduce calf morbi-mortality in dairy farms in Uruguay.


pmid: 28716201
title: A matched case-control study comparing udder health, production and fertility parameters in dairy farms before and after the eradication of Bovine Virus Diarrhoea in Switzerland
abstract: An obligatory eradication programme for Bovine Virus Diarrhoea (BVD) was implemented in Switzerland in 2008. Between 2008 and 2012, all bovines were tested for antigen or antibodies against BVDV. By the year 2012, eradication was completed in the majority of farms. A decrease of the prevalence of persistently infected (PI) newborn calves was observed from 1.4% in 2008 to <0.02% in 2012. The objective of the present study was to assess the effects of BVD eradication on different parameters of animal health, production and fertility in Swiss dairy herds which had completed the eradication programme. A matched case-control study was carried out using data from two periods, before (Period 1) and after (Period 2) the active phase of eradication. Case farms had at least two PI animals detected before or during the eradication; controls were BVD-free and matched for region, herd size and use of alpine pasture. A total of 110 farmers (55 pairs) were recruited. During a phone interview, a questionnaire about farm characteristics, animal health and appreciation of the BVD eradication programme was filled in. Breeding data and milk test day records were also analyzed. Parameters were first compared between (i) case and control herds before eradication, and (ii) Period 1 and Period 2 for case herds only. Milk yield (MY), bulk milk somatic cell count (BMSCC), prevalence of subclinical mastitis (SCM), and non-return rate (NRR) showed a p-value<0.25 in at least one of the univariable comparisons and were thus further analyzed with a multilevel mixed-effects model to account for repeated measures over time. In order to assess whether changes in health status over time were due to BVD eradication, an interaction variable between period and group (case-control) was created (IA). Except for MY, the IA was significant for all parameters modelled. Despite an overall p-value of 0.27, case herds tended to have a higher MY after eradication (β=0.53, p=0.050). For BMSCC and SCM, case herds had higher values than controls in both periods; udder health was significantly improved in control herds and it remained stable in case herds, with a slight decrease of BMSCC (β=-0.19, p=0.010). Finally, among fertility parameters, NRR showed a general improvement but it was significant only in control herds (β=0.29, p=0.019). Even though the effects of the eradication programme measured in this study were less pronounced than expected, 73% of the participants of this study had a positive attitude towards the campaign.


pmid: 25304258
title: Comparison of innate immune agonists for induction of tracheal antimicrobial peptide gene expression in tracheal epithelial cells of cattle
abstract: Bovine respiratory disease is a complex of bacterial and viral infections of economic and welfare importance to the beef industry. Although tracheal antimicrobial peptide (TAP) has microbicidal activity against bacterial pathogens causing bovine respiratory disease, risk factors for bovine respiratory disease including BVDV and stress (glucocorticoids) have been shown to inhibit the induced expression of this gene. Lipopolysaccharide is known to stimulate TAP gene expression, but the maximum effect is only observed after 16 h of stimulation. The present study investigated other agonists of TAP gene expression in primary cultures of bovine tracheal epithelial cells. PCR analysis of unstimulated tracheal epithelial cells, tracheal tissue and lung tissue each showed mRNA expression for Toll-like receptors (TLRs) 1-10. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that Pam3CSK4 (an agonist of TLR1/2) and interleukin (IL)-17A significantly induced TAP gene expression in tracheal epithelial cells after only 4-8 h of stimulation. Flagellin (a TLR5 agonist), lipopolysaccharide and interferon-α also had stimulatory effects, but little or no response was found with class B CpG ODN 2007 (TLR9 agonist) or lipoteichoic acid (TLR2 agonist). The use of combined agonists had little or no enhancing effect above that of single agonists. Thus, Pam3CSK4, IL-17A and lipopolysaccharide rapidly and significantly induce TAP gene expression, suggesting that these stimulatory pathways may be of value for enhancing innate immunity in feedlot cattle at times of susceptibility to disease.


pmid: 23764273
title: In vitro neutralization of HoBi-like viruses by antibodies in serum of cattle immunized with inactivated or modified live vaccines of bovine viral diarrhea viruses 1 and 2
abstract: HoBi-like viruses are an emerging species of pestiviruses with genetic and antigenic similarities to bovine viral diarrhea viruses 1 and 2 (BVDV1 and BVDV2). Vaccines for HoBi-like viruses are not yet available. However, both modified live virus (MLV) and killed virus (KV) vaccines against BVDV are widely used worldwide. This study evaluated the cross reactive antibody response against HoBi-like pestiviruses in sera of cattle immunized with BVDV1 and BVDV2 vaccines. Groups "KV" and "MLV", with 25 calves each, received killed or modified live vaccines, respectively, containing both BVDV1 and BVDV2 antigens. The antibody response was evaluated by virus neutralization test. The average of geometric mean titers (GMTs) of neutralizing antibodies in serum against HoBi-like viruses in the MLV group was 12.9, whereas GMTs to BVDV1, BVDV2 and border disease virus (BDV) were 51.1, 23.5, and 12.4, respectively. In this group, neutralizing antibodies against BVDV1, BVDV2, HoBi-like viruses and BDV were detected in 100%, 94%, 68% and 68% of calves, respectively. The GMT of neutralizing antibodies in serum against BVDV1, BVDV2, HoBi-like viruses and BDV in the KV group were 24.7, 14.5, 10.4 and 11, respectively. Similarly, the percentage of animals with neutralizing antibodies against BVDV1, BVDV2, HoBi-like viruses and BDV were 84%, 56%, 34% and 44%, respectively. These results indicate that MLV or killed BVDV1 and BVDV2 vaccines induce a cross reactive antibody response comparatively weak to HoBi-like viruses, and this response would likely not suffice to confer protection.


pmid: 30517140
title: Traces of history conserved over 600 years in the geographic distribution of genetic variants of an RNA virus: Bovine viral diarrhea virus in Switzerland
abstract: The first records of smallpox and rabies date back thousands of years and foot-and-mouth disease in cattle was described in the 16th century. These diseases stood out by their distinct signs, dramatic way of transmission from rabid dogs to humans, and sudden appearance in cattle herds. By contrast, infectious diseases that show variable signs and affect few individuals were identified only much later. Bovine viral diarrhea (BVD), endemic in cattle worldwide, was first described in 1946, together with the eponymous RNA virus as its cause. There is general agreement that BVD was not newly emerging at that time, but its history remains unknown. A search for associations between the nucleotide sequences of over 7,000 BVD viral strains obtained during a national campaign to eradicate BVD and features common to the hosts of these strains enabled us to trace back in time the presence of BVD in the Swiss cattle population. We found that animals of the two major traditional cattle breeds, Fleckvieh and Swiss Brown, were infected with strains of only four different subgenotypes of BVDV-1. The history of these cattle breeds and the events that determined the current distribution of the two populations are well documented. Specifically, Fleckvieh originates from the Bernese and Swiss Brown from the central Alps. The spread to their current geographic distribution was determined by historic events during a major expansion of the Swiss Confederation during the 15th and 16th centuries. The association of the two cattle populations with different BVD viral subgenotypes may have been preserved by a lack of cattle imports, trade barriers within the country, and unique virus-host interactions. The congruent traces of history in the distribution of the two cattle breeds and distinct viral subgenotypes suggests that BVD may have been endemic in Switzerland for at least 600 years.


pmid: 30218908
title: Molecular design, synthesis and biological evaluation of cage compound-based inhibitors of hepatitis C virus p7 ion channels
abstract: The hepatitis C caused by the hepatitis C virus (HCV) is an acute and/or chronic liver disease ranging in severity from a mild brief ailment to a serious lifelong illness that affects up to 3% of the world population and imposes significant and increasing social, economic, and humanistic burden. Over the past decade, its treatment was revolutionized by the development and introduction into clinical practice of the direct acting antiviral (DAA) agents targeting the non-structural viral proteins NS3/4A, NS5A, and NS5B. However, the current treatment options still have important limitations, thus, the development of new classes of DAAs acting on different viral targets and having better pharmacological profile is highly desirable. The hepatitis C virus p7 viroporin is a relatively small hydrophobic oligomeric viral ion channel that plays a critical role during virus assembly and maturation, making it an attractive and validated target for the development of the cage compound-based inhibitors. Using the homology modeling, molecular dynamics, and molecular docking techniques, we have built a representative set of models of the hepatitis C virus p7 ion channels (Gt1a, Gt1b, Gt1b_L20F, Gt2a, and Gt2b), analyzed the inhibitor binding sites, and identified a number of potential broad-spectrum inhibitor structures targeting them. For one promising compound, the binding to these targets was additionally confirmed and the binding modes and probable mechanisms of action were clarified by the molecular dynamics simulations. A number of compounds were synthesized, and the tests of their antiviral activity (using the BVDV model) and cytotoxicity demonstrate their potential therapeutic usefulness and encourage further more detailed studies. The proposed approach is also suitable for the design of broad-spectrum ligands interacting with other multiple labile targets including various viroporins.


pmid: 35134701
title: Point-of-care treatment of geometrically complex midfacial critical-sized bone defects with 3D-Printed scaffolds and autologous stromal vascular fraction
abstract: Critical-sized midfacial bone defects present a unique clinical challenge due to their complex three-dimensional shapes and intimate associations with sensory organs. To address this challenge, a point-of-care treatment strategy for functional, long-term regeneration of 2 cm full-thickness segmental defects in the zygomatic arches of Yucatan minipigs is evaluated. A digital workflow is used to 3D-print anatomically precise, porous, biodegradable scaffolds from clinical-grade poly-ε-caprolactone and decellularized bone composites. The autologous stromal vascular fraction of cells (SVF) is isolated from adipose tissue extracts and infused into the scaffolds that are implanted into the zygomatic ostectomies. Bone regeneration is assessed up to 52 weeks post-operatively in acellular (AC) and SVF groups (BV/DV = 0.64 ± 0.10 and 0.65 ± 0.10 respectively). In both treated groups, bone grows from the adjacent tissues and restores the native anatomy. Significantly higher torque is required to fracture the bone-scaffold interface in the SVF (7.11 ± 2.31 N m) compared to AC groups (2.83 ± 0.23 N m). Three-dimensional microcomputed tomography analysis reveals two distinct regenerative patterns: osteoconduction along the periphery of scaffolds to form dense lamellar bone and small islands of woven bone deposits growing along the struts in the scaffold interior. Overall, this study validates the efficacy of using 3D-printed bioactive scaffolds with autologous SVF to restore geometrically complex midfacial bone defects of clinically relevant sizes while also highlighting remaining challenges to be addressed prior to clinical translation.


pmid: 30329060
title: Effect of a DNA-based immunostimulant on growth, performance, and expression of inflammatory and immune mediators in beef calves abruptly weaned and introduced to a complete ration
abstract: The effect of a DNA immunostimulant on inflammatory and immune responses, performance, and health in calves following abrupt weaning and introduction to a concentrate diet was tested. Sixty-four single source Angus crossbred steers were weaned on day 1 and assigned to receive a DNA immunostimulant (TRT) or saline (CON) on days 0, 2, 4, and 6. On day 0, steers received clostridial and respiratory vaccines and anthelmintic; they were then transported 2 h, allocated to pens (n = 8 per pen), and introduced to total mixed ration. Daily intake, ADG, and feed efficiency were measured. Serum haptoglobin, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), and interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β) were assayed by ELISA or AlphaLISA on days 0, 2, 4, 6, 14, and 28; serum-neutralizing antibodies (SNA) to bovine herpesvirus-1 and bovine viral diarrhea virus-1 (BVDV-1) were quantified on days 0, 28, 68, and 135. In a subset of cattle (n = 6 to 8 per treatment group), the percent macrophages and activated gamma delta (γδ) T cells in blood was determined by flow cytometry on days 2 and 6, and expression of mRNA for TNF-α, interferon-gamma (IFN-γ), IL-4, and IL-10 by stimulated blood mononuclear cells was assessed by real-time reverse transcriptase PCR on day 6. After 70 d, cattle were shipped 1,205 km to a feedlot and performance and health were followed. There was a significant effect of time on serum TNF-α, IL-1β, haptoglobin, and SNA (P < 0.001); the range in concentration among cattle on each day was large. The ratio of IFN-γ to IL-4 expression was significantly higher (P = 0.03) for TRT cattle, suggesting that treatment activated T-helper type 1 cells. There was a trend toward an improved feed conversion (P = 0.10) for TRT steers over the 70-d backgrounding period. There was no effect of treatment on feedlot performance or carcass merit (P > 0.10). During backgrounding, 1 TRT steer died of enterocolitis. In spite of backgrounding, cattle experienced an outbreak of bovine respiratory disease (BRD) in the feedlot and 1 of 31 TRT cattle and 5 of 32 CON cattle died of BRD. The immunostimulant modified some immune responses during backgrounding. Large variability in inflammatory responses during backgrounding indicated that events around weaning induce systemic inflammation that varies substantially among cattle.


pmid: 23009318
title: Distinction between persistent and transient infection in a bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) control programme: appropriate interpretation of real-time RT-PCR and antigen-ELISA test results
abstract: Control of bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) in Belgium is currently implemented on a voluntary basis at herd level and mainly relies on detection and culling of persistently infected (PI) animals. The present field study was conducted during the winter of 2010/2011 to assess the performances of diagnostic assays used in the testing scheme for BVD as proposed by the two Belgian regional laboratories. Individual blood samples were collected from 4972 animals, and individual samples from the same herd were pooled (maximum of 30 individual samples per pool) and screened for the presence of Bovine Viral Diarrhoea Virus (BVDV)-specific RNA using a commercial real-time RT-PCR test (ADIAGENE). Individual samples from positive pools were then tested in parallel with the same RT-PCR test and with an antigen-capture ELISA test (IDEXX) to detect viremic animals. This study demonstrated that individual results differed according to the type of assay used (P < 0.001): 140 animals (2.8%) were positive by RT-PCR and 72 (1.4%) by antigen-ELISA. A second blood sample was taken 40 days later from 74 PCR positive animals to detect persistent viremia: 17 (23%) of these were still PCR positive and considered to be PI and the 57 that no longer tested positive were assumed to be transiently infected (TI) animals. All PI animals were positive also by antigen-ELISA at both time points. Among TI animals, 10 (16%) were positive by antigen-ELISA at the first but none at the second sampling. A highly significant difference in cycle threshold (Ct ) values obtained by RT-PCR was observed between PI and TI animals. ROC analysis was performed to establish thresholds to confirm with high probability that an animal is PI, based on the result of RT-PCR test performed on a single individual blood sample.


pmid: 32303109
title: Spatiotemporal monitoring of selected pathogens in Iberian ibex (Capra pyrenaica)
abstract: An epidemiological surveillance programme was carried out to assess exposure and spatiotemporal patterns of selected pathogens (Brucella spp., Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis (MAP), Mycoplasma agalactiae, Pestivirus and bluetongue virus (BTV)) in Iberian ibex (Capra pyrenaica) from Andalusia (southern Spain), the region with the largest population of this species. A total of 602 animals in five distribution areas were sampled during 2010-2012 (P1) and 2013-2015 (P2). The Rose Bengal test (RBT) and complement fixation test (CFT) were used in parallel to detect anti-Brucella spp. antibodies. Commercial ELISAs were used to test for antibodies against the other selected pathogens. Sera positive for BTV and Pestivirus by ELISA were tested by serum neutralization test (SNT) to identify circulating serotypes/genotypes. The overall seroprevalences were as follows: 0.4% for Brucella spp. (2/549; CI 95%: 0.1-1.3) (14/555 positive by RBT; 2/564 by CFT), 0.5% for MAP (3/564; CI 95%: 0.1-1.5), 5.7% for M. agalactiae (30/529; CI 95%: 3.9-8.0), 11.1% for Pestivirus (58/525; CI 95%: 8.5-14.1) and 3.3% for BTV (18/538; CI 95%: 2.0-5.2). Significantly higher seropositivity to both M. agalactiae and BTV was observed in P1 compared with P2. Spatiotemporal clusters of high seroprevalence were also found for M. agalactiae in four of the five sampling areas in 2010, and for BTV in one of five areas in 2012. Specific antibodies against BTV-4, BDV-4 and BVDV-1 were confirmed by SNT. Our results indicate that the Iberian ibex may be considered spillover hosts of Brucella spp. and MAP rather than true reservoirs. The prevalence of antibodies against M. agalactiae and BTV suggests spatiotemporal variation in the circulation of these pathogens, while Pestivirus has a moderately endemic circulation in Iberian ibex populations. Our study highlights the importance of long-term surveillance for a better understanding of the spatiotemporal distribution of shared infectious diseases and providing valuable information to improve control measures at the wildlife-livestock interface.


pmid: 35304629
title: Epidemic abortions due to Neospora caninum infection in farmed red deer (Cervus elaphus)
abstract: This study describes for the first time an abortion outbreak caused by Neospora caninum in farmed red deer. During a 5-year period, farmed hinds, naturally mated, were regularly ultrasound monitored to detect reproductive losses over their gestation. During the 4 years previous to the outbreak, abortion rates ranged from 4.7 to 8.6% (average 6.5%), and serology for indirect diagnosis of neosporosis and toxoplasmosis was performed. At the fifth year, the abortion rate increased to 25.3%. During this outbreak, three aborted foetuses and their placentas were recovered and submitted to laboratory for etiological diagnosis. Blood samples were collected from the 81 hinds at the end of the gestational period and the seropositivity rate for N. caninum, Toxoplasma gondii, Brucella abortus, bovine viral diarrhoea virus and bovine alphaherpesvirus type 1 was 66.7%, 67.9%, 0.0%, 8.6% and 0.0%, respectively. Neospora caninum-seropositive hinds (OR = 5.7, P = 0.0271) and hinds with high antibody titres to N. caninum (OR = 7.4, P = 0.0130) were more likely to abort than seronegative hinds. In addition, N. caninum seropositivity rate in the aborted hinds was higher (OR = 5.4, P = 0.033) than the non-aborted hinds. No association was found between T. gondii nor BVDV-seropositivity and abortions. Typical protozoal histopathologic findings (necrotizing non suppurative encephalitis, meningitis, myocarditis, hepatitis, among others) were observed in all foetuses. Neospora caninum was immunolabelled by immunohistochemistry in several tissues from two foetuses, and infection was also confirmed in the three foetuses by serology and/or DNA detection. No other abortifacient agent was detected in the foetuses. Their dams showed high N. caninum antibody titres (≥ 6400). Serologic evidence and epidemiological data recorded suggested a point-source of N. caninum infection before the occurrence of the outbreak, probably related with contaminated feedstuff with oocysts. Moreover, the intensive production system with a high stocking rate could be also considered a factor which might have increased the risk of horizontal N. caninum infection in this herd.


